0
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - The most powerful operational rocket in the world, SpaceX’s Falcon Heavy, launched its first commercial mission on Thursday from Florida in a key demonstration for billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk's space company in the race to grasp lucrative military launch contracts.The 23-story-tall Heavy, which previously launched Musk’s cherry red Tesla roadster to space in a 2018 debut test flight, blasted off from Florida’s Kennedy Space Center carrying its first customer payload.""T plus 33 seconds into flight, under the power of 5.1 million pounds of thrust, Falcon Heavy is headed to space,"" SpaceX launch commentator John Insprucker said on a livestream. Roughly three minutes after clearing the pad, Heavy’s two side boosters separated from the core rocket for a synchronized landing at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, sparking boisterous cheers from SpaceX engineers in the company's Hawthorne, California headquarters.  The middle booster, after pushing the payload into space, returned nearly 10 minutes later for a successful landing on SpaceX's seafaring drone ship 400 miles (645 km) off the Florida coast. In the 2018 test mission, Heavy's core booster missed the vessel and crashed into the Atlantic Ocean. “The Falcons have landed” Musk wrote on Twitter, inaugurating the first successful recovery of all three rocket boosters, which will be refurbished and re-fly in another Falcon Heavy mission this summer to carry a swarm of military and science satellites for the Air Force.Liftoff with Heavy’s new military-certified Falcon 9 engines was crucial in the race with Boeing-Lockheed venture United Launch Alliance and Jeff Bezos’ Blue Origin as Musk’s SpaceX, working to flight-prove its rocket fleet one mission at a time, aims to clinch a third of all U.S. National Security Space missions - coveted military contracts worth billions.The U.S. Air Force tapped SpaceX in 2018 to launch for $130 million a classified military satellite and in February added three more missions in a $297 million contract. SpaceX and Boeing Co are vying to send humans to space from U.S. soil for the first time in nearly a decade under NASA’s Commercial Crew Program. SpaceX’s Crew Dragon capsule, atop a Falcon 9 rocket, cleared its first unmanned test flight in March ahead of its crewed mission planned for July, while the first unmanned test for Boeing’s Starliner capsule is slated for August on ULA’s Atlas 5 rocket. Falcon Heavy carried a communications satellite for Saudi-based telecom firm Arabsat, which will beam internet and television services over Africa, Europe and the Middle East.Privately owned SpaceX, also known as Space Exploration Technologies Corp, was founded in 2002 by Musk, who is also a co-founder of electric car maker Tesla Inc. (Reporting by Joey Roulette; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersNEW YORK — Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission will get another week to settle a dispute over Musk's use of Twitter, a federal judge ruled Thursday. U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan in Manhattan extended the deadline by one week to April 25, in response to a Thursday court filing where both sides requested the extension and said ""discussions are ongoing."" Nathan had been asked to hold Musk in contempt over a Feb. 19 tweet that the SEC said violated an earlier settlement with the agency.If Musk and the agency fail to resolve the dispute, the judge said she would rule on the contempt request. The SEC sued Musk last year after he tweeted on Aug. 7 that he had ""funding secured"" to take Tesla private at $420 per share. The agency said the tweet, which sent Tesla's share price up as much as 13.3 percent, violated securities laws. Musk's privatization plan was at best in an early stage and financing was not in place.Musk settled the lawsuit, agreeing to step down as chairman and have the company's lawyers pre-approve written communications with material information about the company, including tweets.In February, the SEC accused Musk of violating that settlement by sending a tweet about Tesla's production that had not been vetted by the company's attorneys, and asked U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan in Manhattan to hold him in contempt.Musk's lawyers have argued that the tweet did not contain new information that was material to investors, and that Musk did not need pre-approval for all tweets about Tesla under the settlement.At an April 4 hearing, a lawyer for the SEC said that if Musk were found in contempt, the agency would ask the judge to require him to submit regular reports about his Twitter use, and to pay a series of progressively higher fines for any future violations.Nathan declined to rule on the contempt motion at the hearing, instead ordering Musk and Tesla to meet and try to resolve the dispute on their own.Musk is worth $20.7 billion, according to Forbes magazine. He has been chief executive of Tesla since 2008 and has more than 25 million followers on Twitter.The Palo Alto, California-based company built its reputation on luxury cars, but has faced several production challenges with its Model 3 sedan, which it hopes will reach a mass audience.The Feb. 19 tweet that prompted the SEC's contempt motion said: ""Tesla made 0 cars in 2011, but will make around 500k in 2019,"" meaning 500,000 vehicles.Four hours later, Musk corrected himself, saying annualized production would be ""probably around"" 500,000 by year end, with full-year deliveries totaling about 400,000.The SEC said the earlier tweet conflicted with Tesla's Jan. 30 outlook, when it targeted annualized Model 3 production exceeding 500,000 as soon as the fourth quarter, and projected 360,000 to 400,000 vehicle deliveries this year.Musk's lawyers have argued that the first tweet did not contain new information that was material to investors, and that Musk did not need pre-approval for all tweets about Tesla under the settlement.Musk has been an outspoken critic of the SEC throughout his legal dispute with the SEC, which he once dubbed the ""Shortseller Enrichment Commission.""In the early morning of Feb. 26, after the regulator filed its contempt motion, Musk tweeted: ""Something is broken with SEC oversight."" (Reporting by Brendan Pierson in New York; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Neal E. BoudetteTesla delivered fewer vehicles than expected in the first quarter, the company said Wednesday, with deliveries falling 31 percent to 63,000 vehicles from the fourth quarter of 2018.The electric-car maker, led by Elon Musk, said the lower-than-expected delivery volume and several pricing adjustments would hurt its first-quarter net income. The company previously said it would lose money in the first quarter.The company’s shares were down about 8 percent in afternoon trading on Thursday.The price cuts were aimed at making Tesla cars affordable to a wider range of customers. The cost to consumers was essentially increased on Jan. 1 when a federal tax credit available to buyers of electric vehicles was cut in half, to $3,750, as part of a scheduled phaseout of the incentive. The credit will drop to $1,875 after July 1 and end next Jan. 1.The drop in deliveries appeared to reflect new weakness in demand in the United States, occurring even though Tesla began shipping cars in volume to Europe and China in the quarter. Deliveries of its Model 3 sedan, its most affordable car, totaled 50,900, 20 percent fewer than in the fourth quarter. Deliveries of its Model S and Model X luxury models fell 56 percent to 12,100 cars.[Hints of the slump were evident in registration data.]Tesla produced 77,100 vehicles in the quarter, down from 86,555 in the fourth quarter. It reiterated that it expected to deliver 360,000 to 400,000 cars this year, and said it had finished the quarter with “sufficient” cash on hand, without offering further details. Analysts have raised concerns about Tesla’s cash supply. It started the first quarter with $3.7 billion, but used nearly $1 billion to make a payment to bondholders last month.Next month, Tesla hopes to begin volume deliveries of a $35,000 version of the Model 3, the car that many of the company’s fans have been waiting for. Analysts are uncertain whether Tesla can make money selling the Model 3 at that price, however.In a Feb. 28 conference call, Mr. Musk said Tesla would close most of its stores around the country and rely on online sales as part of an effort to slash costs so it could sell the $35,000 car profitably. But 11 days later, Tesla reversed course and said it would keep many of the stores, and reopen some that had already closed. It also said it would increase prices on all its cars except the $35,000 version of the Model 3.In the coming weeks, Tesla is expected to report a loss for the first quarter. The company was profitable in the final two quarters of 2018 as Model 3 sales rose.There have been other challenges for the company, including a renewed legal battle between Mr. Musk and the Securities and Exchange Commission.The S.E.C. asked a federal court in February to hold Mr. Musk in contempt for violating a settlement that he and Tesla reached with the commission last year regarding scrutiny of his statements. In a motion to the court, the S.E.C. said Mr. Musk had not sought approval from company lawyers, as required by the agreement, before making a sales prediction on Twitter that varied from previous announcements. The court is expected to rule on Thursday.In the tweet, which was posted Feb. 19, Mr. Musk said Tesla would make 500,000 cars this year, 100,000 more than the company had forecast in January. Tesla’s general counsel left the company two days later.In response, Mr. Musk’s lawyers said the commission was overreaching based on comparable precedents. They contend that Mr. Musk was acting within his discretion in his Twitter posting, and that it contained no material information beyond what the company had previously stated in public.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Neal E. Boudette and Raymond ZhongTesla has unveiled a compact sport utility vehicle called the Model Y, in its latest effort to broaden its product range while contending with problems on a number of fronts.Speaking on Thursday night at an event at the company’s design center in Hawthorne, Calif., Elon Musk, Tesla’s chief executive, touted the new electric vehicle’s performance and safety-focused design.“It has the functionality of an S.U.V., but it will ride like a sports car,” Mr. Musk said. “This thing will be really tight in corners. And we expect it will be the safest midsize S.U.V. in the world by far.”Tesla, however, is still a long way from delivering the vehicle. It forecast that the earliest deliveries would begin in fall 2020, barring engineering or production delays of the sort that hampered its best-selling car, the Model 3.Last year, Mr. Musk predicted that the Model Y would be ready for delivery in the first half of 2020. Tesla has not offered detailed plans for assembling the car, and recently said it would probably make the Model Y at its giant battery plant in Nevada.Toni Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, said Tesla’s goal of having the Model Y in volume production by the end of next year was a matter of concern.“This timeline appears similar to the original timeline for the Model 3 ramp, which was ultimately delayed by nine-12 months,” he wrote in a note to investors.By late 2020, Tesla will probably face stronger competition. Audi, Mercedes-Benz, Jaguar and Porsche are just starting to produce vehicles that will rival the Model Y.The first Model Y versions will have starting prices of $47,000 to $60,000 and are expected to offer a driving range of up to 300 miles. The company has begun taking deposits of $2,500 for orders.A more affordable version with a range of about 230 miles and a starting price of $39,000 is supposed to go into production in spring 2021.Tesla said it aimed to offer the Model Y in the United States, Canada, Mexico, China, Germany, the Netherlands and a number of other European countries.Investors seemed unimpressed by the rollout. Tesla’s shares declined 5 percent on Friday.Tesla is confronting sales challenges in Europe and China, markets it has been counting on for expansion. The company has also faced some operational uncertainty. Two weeks ago, Mr. Musk announced that Tesla would begin selling a long-awaited version of its Model 3 sedan priced at $35,000, $8,000 less than the cheapest current version. But he said Tesla would lose money in the first quarter, and analysts question whether Tesla can ever make money on the car at the lower price.Tesla originally said customers would have to wait two to four weeks for delivery of the $35,000 Model 3. It now says the wait is six to eight weeks because of the volume of orders.Sales of Tesla’s other models, the Model S luxury sedan and Model X sport utility vehicle, have been flattening. And analysts suspect that demand for Tesla vehicles has softened since the beginning of the year, when the federal tax credit available to Tesla customers fell by half, raising the total cost for buyers. Until the end of 2018, Tesla buyers were eligible for a credit of $7,500. That fell to $3,850 on Jan. 1, essentially raising the price of Tesla cars.Tesla responded with a series of price cuts to lift sales. In a conference call in January, Mr. Musk said many customers could not afford the company’s cars.To cut costs, Tesla announced that it would close most of its stores around the country. Days later, it backtracked and decided to keep many of the stores, and to reopen some that had already closed, though it affirmed a shift toward online-only sales. It also reversed direction on pricing, saying it would increase prices on all its cars except the $35,000 version of the Model 3.An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to the production plans for Tesla’s Model Y. The company said it would be available in North America, parts of Europe, and China; it did not say the car would be produced in all of those places.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Neal E. BoudetteJust days after saying that it would close most of its stores, Tesla is making an abrupt U-turn.In a message posted on its blog just before midnight Sunday, the electric-car maker said it had decided to retain many of the locations it had shut down or was planning to close. And it said it would raise most of its vehicle prices about 3 percent worldwide, just weeks after cutting prices.“Over the past two weeks we have been closely evaluating every single Tesla retail location, and we have decided to keep significantly more stores open than previously announced as we continue to evaluate them over the course of several months,” the company said in the blog post. The price increases, it said, are necessary to make up for the loss of savings that was anticipated from the store closings.The flip-flops are the latest sign of turmoil surrounding the company and its chief executive, Elon Musk.“This reversal is bizarre and indicates a lack of actual planning in the earlier announcement,” said Mike Ramsey, a Gartner analyst. “Their retail stores still serve a real need.”Until last month, Tesla had been rushing to expand its network of showrooms and mall galleries, which display its cars but take no customer orders.On Feb. 28, Mr. Musk told reporters in a conference call that Tesla would start offering a long-awaited version of its Model 3 sedan with a starting price of $35,000. Previously, the least expensive Model 3 cost $43,000 before tax incentives.Mr. Musk said closing its stores would allow Tesla to cut costs enough to make the Model 3 profitable at the lower price. But he would not elaborate on those calculations, and he said Tesla would lose money in the first quarter, contrary to previous forecasts.As part of the cost cutting, he said, Tesla would henceforth take orders only online. Tesla affirmed the online approach in its announcement Sunday night, saying its stores would serve as a way to introduce potential buyers to Tesla vehicles, provide a test drive on request — another reversal from its earlier announcement — and show how to make a purchase.“Stores will also carry a small number of cars in inventory for customers who wish to drive away with a Tesla immediately,” it added.In a recent email to employees, Mr. Musk said 78 percent of Model 3 orders were already placed online. Buyers can get full refunds if they return cars within seven days and have driven them less than 1,000 miles.Tesla has been in retreat in recent months, scrambling to shore up flagging investor confidence. Along with layoffs of 7 percent of its work force in January, the news of store closings appeared to underline the challenges for a newcomer breaking into an old-line manufacturing industry. The company has struggled to make a few thousand cars in a week — a feat that established automakers can do in a day.Asked to elaborate on the company’s latest moves, a Tesla spokesman declined to comment.The weeks of tension have taken a toll on Tesla shares. On Monday they rose 2.4 percent, closing at $290.92, but they are down 9 percent since Mr. Musk said the company would be unprofitable in the first quarter.The twists on the marketing front have coincided with renewed upheaval surrounding Mr. Musk himself.Less than a month ago, Tesla’s general counsel quit a day after Mr. Musk said on Twitter that the company expected to sell 500,000 cars this year, an increase of 100,000 from the estimate it made public in January.The Securities and Exchange Commission contended that the tweet violated an agreement it had reached with Tesla in September to settle a securities-fraud case, and it asked a federal court to hold Mr. Musk in contempt. Under the settlement, the company was to “put in place additional controls and procedures” to oversee Mr. Musk’s communications.In a response filed with the court on Monday, Mr. Musk’s lawyers argued that there were no grounds for a contempt citation. They said that the Tesla chief “correctly used his discretion” to determine that nothing in his Twitter post was material and that “under no fair reading of the materiality standard” did the post alter the information available to investors.The response also said that a contempt citation “would raise serious First Amendment issues” and that the S.E.C.’s request represented “unprecedented overreach.”Even with its financial and regulatory challenges, the company is moving ahead on new initiatives.On Thursday, Mr. Musk is scheduled to unveil the Model Y, a sport utility vehicle that Tesla is counting on to fuel further growth. David Whiston, a Morningstar analyst, said the big question for Tesla’s business prospects was when the Model Y would be available for sale. “Thursday is just for show,” he said.And in a move meant to address its logistical challenges in delivering cars to customers, Tesla said in a filing with the S.E.C. on Monday that it had purchased trucks and car-hauling trailers from a California company in exchange for stock worth $13.8 million. In November, Mr. Musk said on Twitter that Tesla had bought “some trucking companies,” but provided no details.Mr. Musk has portrayed the Model 3 as a mass-market offering crucial to Tesla’s future. In the last three months of 2018, Tesla opened 27 sales and service locations to keep up with rising demand. Over all, the company had more than 100 stores and showrooms in the United States, and others overseas.In its announcement Sunday night, Tesla said it had already closed 10 percent of its locations. Those stores did not have “natural foot traffic,” it said, though some will reopen with a smaller staff. The company said an additional 20 percent were under review for potential closing in the coming months.The automaker also said the $35,000 version of the Model 3 would not be affected by the price increases. They will apply to the higher-end Model X and Model S — cars on which Tesla only recently had been dropping prices — as well as for more expensive versions of the Model 3.The company said customers would have a week to place orders at current prices.Stanley Reed contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Neal E. BoudetteFaced with slumping sales and increasing financial stresses, Tesla has shifted course several times in the last two months, deciding to keep stores after saying it would close most and cutting prices before raising them again.Now, in the latest course correction, Tesla says it will end online sales of the long-awaited $35,000 version of its Model 3 sedan, its lowest-priced offering, and make other changes that will effectively raise the price of the car for many customers.The move comes just over a month after Tesla announced that the $35,000 version was finally coming to market.“The constant shifting of pricing and options is really confusing and frustrating for customers,” Mike Ramsey, a Gartner analyst, said Friday. “People buy a car for one price, and a few weeks later it’s selling for a different price.”In a blog post late Thursday, Tesla said customers wanting the $35,000 version of the Model 3 would have to make the purchase by phone or in person at one of its stores.[Read more: One reporter’s quest to see if Tesla’s new policy made things unnecessarily complicated.]The cheapest Model 3s ordered online will now include Tesla’s Autopilot driver-assistance system and a longer battery range, features that increase the price to $39,500. The blog post said Tesla was making the changes to “simplify vehicle choices and to make Autopilot more affordable.” Such a configuration would previously have cost $40,500, it said.A Tesla spokesman said the change would allow the company to produce one version of the Model 3 and use software to limit the battery range and turn off features such as heated seats for customers who wanted the $35,000 model. A longer range and additional features will be switched on in the $39,500 car, known as the Standard Plus model. Previously, Tesla planned to put a smaller battery pack in the basic model and a larger one in the Standard Plus, the spokesman said.Tesla’s announcement also said it would begin leasing the Model 3, but would not offer customers the option to buy the cars after their leases expired, a departure from the typical industry practice and its own policy on other models.Tesla said it aimed to upgrade Model 3s returned after a lease to allow them to drive themselves, with no human at the wheel, and be deployed in a driverless taxi fleet. The company acknowledged that the technology for driverless taxis was still in development and would need to be approved by safety regulators before such a business could begin.The latest moves coincide with a slump in Tesla’s sales, especially in the United States. In the first quarter, the company delivered about 63,000 cars, a 31 percent drop from the fourth quarter. Elon Musk, the company’s chief executive, has also said Tesla has experienced delays and difficulties starting up deliveries of the Model 3 in Europe and China, and will report a loss in the first quarter after producing profits in the final two quarters of 2018.Tesla has forecast 2019 deliveries of 360,000 to 400,000 cars, but after the weak showing in the first quarter, it will have to deliver an average of about 100,000 cars in the final three quarters to reach that range. Domestic demand is likely to be tempered further after July 1, when the federal tax credit available to Tesla customers falls to $1,875 from the current $3,750.“We think TSLA will be hard pressed to hit the guidance” on deliveries, Garrett Nelson, an analyst at CFRA Research, wrote in a note to investors Thursday.New areas of concern have emerged, too. Tesla’s battery partner, Panasonic, said this week that it was “watching the demand situation” and studying whether to go ahead with further investments in the battery plant, known as the Gigafactory, that the two companies operate in Nevada.The statement was a response to a report by the Japanese news organization Nikkei that Panasonic was freezing its investments in the plant. The company recently ousted the executive who had engineered the partnership with Tesla.In its own statement, Tesla said it and Panasonic “continue to invest substantial funds” in the Nevada plant, but were now focusing more on increasing production without adding new equipment.“We are seeing significant gains from upgrading existing lines to increase output,” Tesla said.A prominent skeptic on Wall Street, David Einhorn of Greenlight Capital, who has long bet against Tesla’s shares, cited the report about the Gigafactory, along with the recent sales figures and accounts of quality problems, as evidence that “the wheels are falling off.”The $35,000 version of the Model 3 has long been seen as a potential gateway to the mass market. As recently as January, Mr. Musk estimated that global demand for the Model 3 would reach 700,000 to 800,000 cars a year “in a strong economy.”He originally began extolling the $35,000 model in 2016. On Feb. 28, in announcing that it was finally becoming available, Mr. Musk said Tesla would  close most of its stores and showrooms to cut costs in hopes of producing the low-priced version at a profit, while increasing its emphasis on online sales. Less than two weeks later, the company retreated, saying it would keep many stores and showrooms open.Tesla’s shares finished slightly lower on Friday, and are down 16 percent since their close on Feb. 28.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Neal E. BoudetteTesla has now shown it can make money — it reported its second consecutive quarterly profit on Wednesday, the first time it has done so — but the automaker still faces many challenges as it seeks to keep its growth going.The Model 3 sedan still costs too much to produce. The company has set an ambitious goal of churning out cars from a new factory in China by the end of the year. And it struggles to provide the kind of customer service that buyers of luxury automobiles expect. Tesla also is planning to spend heavily on a new model even as a big bond payment reduces its cash reserves.Still, Elon Musk, the chief executive, says he believes Tesla’s toughest times are behind it.“This is going to be an amazing year for Tesla,” he said on a conference call to discuss the company’s fourth-quarter earnings. “I’m optimistic about being profitable in the first quarter, and all quarters going forward.”The automaker’s earnings in the final three months of 2018 leave some doubt about whether its profits will continue to grow. It reported $139 million in earnings in the fourth quarter, a substantial drop from the third quarter, despite a nearly 6 percent jump in revenue, to $7.2 billion.The company blamed the introduction of lower-priced Model 3 variants that generate less profit than costlier versions, price cuts on the vehicles it exports to China and fewer sales of emissions credits to other carmakers.Tesla said it had $3.7 billion in cash, an increase of about $700 million from Sept. 30. With that rise, Tesla said it would be able to make a $920 million payment to its bondholders in March, solving one of the most critical questions about the company’s finances.Investors had been concerned about how Tesla would pay off the bonds, fearing the company could be left squeezed for cash. Tesla could have made part of the bond payment in stock if its share price had been above $360, a level it exceeded for part of last year.The shares closed Wednesday at $308.77 but dropped nearly 5 percent in aftermarket trading after the company announced that its chief financial officer, Deepak Ahuja, would retire without saying exactly when.Tesla said its revenue rose nearly 6 percent to $7.2 billion.Mr. Musk predicted the company would deliver 360,000 to 400,000 cars this year, up from 245,000 in 2018, driven by higher sales of the Model 3. The company also said it anticipated lower North American vehicle sales in the current quarter compared to the fourth quarter. At the same time, it expects to begin sales in Europe and China.The company also said it anticipated lower North American vehicle sales in the current quarter compared to the fourth quarter.Some analysts believe increasing sales may prove tough, now that sales of the Model S luxury sedan and Model X S.U.V. are flattening, and the federal tax credit available to Tesla customers has fallen to $3,750 as of Jan. 1. Last year, customers were eligible for credits of $7,500. And soon it will face competition from other luxury car makers.“Tesla’s product lineup is starting to get stale, and now thanks to the elimination of the federal tax credit, buying one has never been more expensive,” said Jessica Caldwell, an analyst at Edmunds, an auto-information provider. “While there’s still a cool factor to owning a Tesla, it may not be enough to convince buyers to choose one over brand-new models from Audi, Porsche and Jaguar.”Tesla’s most affordable car is a midrange variant of the Model 3 that starts at $44,000 before tax incentives. Adding options can push the price up to $70,000 or more — well outside the range of most mainstream buyers.Tesla originally promised that the Model 3 would start at $35,000, but Mr. Musk has said the automaker would lose money if it sold the car at that price now. Earlier this month, he said the company would cut 3,000 jobs — about 7 percent of its full-time work force — to reduce costs.Tesla is investing heavily to add showrooms, service centers and charging stations, expand into additional markets and develop new models. These include an electric pickup truck, a semi truck and a small sport-utility vehicle, the Model Y, which Tesla has said it will unveil this year.Mr. Musk has repeatedly said Tesla won’t issue more bonds or sell additional stock to finance its ambitious plans, but many analysts are skeptical. The company is already carrying nearly $10 billion in debt. Issuing new bonds would increase its debt load. Selling additional stock could worry investors.At one time, Tesla said it had more than 400,000 reservations for the Model 3, enough to keep sales and production humming through 2019. Some were deposits on the $35,000 version of the Model 3Mr. Musk said Tesla aimed to start production of the Model 3 in China by the end of the year, at a factory that has not yet been built. Producing cars in China will enable Tesla to avoid that country’s import tariffs that hamper its sales now.The company will also have to spend heavily to build more delivery centers in the United States. Last fall, as Model 3 sales rose, many customers experienced delivery delays and confusion at the company’s showrooms. Others complained of waiting weeks or months for repairs because of severe parts shortages. Some have reported quality problems that vary from cracked windows to rear bumpers falling off.On the conference call, Mr. Musk said improving customer service in North America was his top priority this year.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Neal E. BoudetteTesla’s sleek stores embodied its green vision for upending the transportation and energy business: a one-stop shop for electric cars, solar panels and battery storage. Less than three months ago, the company announced 11 new store locations across the country.Now Tesla is in retreat, shuttering most of its stores in a bid to cut costs. The move signaled the broader vulnerabilities of an upstart that for a time was the most highly valued American car company.A spate of price cuts in the United States points to a slowdown in sales, and the company says it is currently making cars for Europe and China only. But plans to bring the company’s mass-market car, the Model 3, to overseas buyers have been hamstrung by logistical challenges.A long-promised $35,000 version of the Model 3 is finally being offered, but the price will test the company’s profitability. Tesla now expects a loss in the first quarter, rattling investors’ faith in the company and its enigmatic founder, Elon Musk. In recent days, its shares have tumbled more than 13 percent.“I think this company is in scary territory,” said Erik Gordon, a management expert at the University of Michigan’s Ross School of Business. The “flip-flop” on retail strategy, he added, “makes it seem like Musk is winging it and the board is letting him wing it.”Asked for comment on the company’s strategy and outlook, a Tesla spokesman referred to its financial filings and recent statements by Mr. Musk expressing confidence in its course.Mr. Musk has promised a revolution in pretty much every business he has entered. His Space X rockets are meant to take passengers to other planets someday, while his Boring Company aims to solve traffic problems with underground tunnels.At Tesla, Mr. Musk wanted to transform car manufacturing with a highly automated production process. But the company has struggled to master the basics.Production lines sputtered when Mr. Musk pushed to churn out a few thousand cars a week — something established automakers do in a day. Tesla sent customers $70,000 cars with dings, scratches and malfunctioning screens. Some owners needing repairs were told to wait weeks or months for an appointment.Recently, the financial stress on the company has become more evident. It laid off 7 percent of its work force in January, the second job cut in the last eight months. And the company had to use up a quarter of its available cash last week to make a $920 million payment to bondholders, giving it less of a cushion to expand or absorb losses.Next week, Mr. Musk intends to unveil Tesla’s newest offering, the Model Y, a small sport utility vehicle that uses some of the same parts as the Model 3. But those ambitions will further strain Tesla’s capital and could pose a risk to sales of other models.And the abrupt change to online-only sales is a rare strategic reversal.In the final three months of 2018, Tesla opened 27 sales and service locations to keep up with rising demand for the Model 3. Over all, it had more than 100 stores and showrooms nationwide and others overseas. In a Feb. 19 regulatory filing, Tesla said company-owned stores strengthened its brand and helped reach potential customers in major markets.Just nine days later, Mr. Musk said Tesla was going to close all but “a small number” of its stores, which take orders, and galleries, which increase exposure. He also said that the company would no longer offer test drives, and that all sales had to be completed by computer or smartphone.At a darkened Tesla outlet in the Dallas Galleria, one of the locations that opened in December, a security guard sat inside the store this week as passers-by snapped photos of the three cars visible though the glass. A sign proclaimed, “All Tesla Sales Now Online.”As Mr. Musk lays it out, the change is not so radical. In an email to employees, he said that 78 percent of Model 3 orders were already placed online, and that 82 percent of the model’s buyers made their purchase without a test drive.Mr. Musk has made two arguments. He said store closings and related job reductions would enable Tesla to lower costs enough to make money selling Model 3s for $35,000. Financial analysts are not so sure. In a note to his clients, Toni Sacconaghi of Sanford C. Bernstein & Company estimated that the profit margin on the base Model 3 was “close to 0 today.”Mr. Musk also said the move to online-only sales would become a strategic advantage. But Mr. Gordon, the University of Michigan professor, questioned whether Tesla would be able to maintain growth without brick-and-mortar stores.“They are not going to grow faster by being online only than by online plus stores,” he said. “It’s a logical impossibility.”In the last three years, Tesla has missed several of the ambitious goals Mr. Musk has set. He once forecast that Tesla would turn out 500,000 cars in 2018, twice what it ultimately produced.Mr. Musk announced last week that Tesla was accepting orders for a Model 3 priced at $35,000 — $8,000 less than the current basic model. But the federal tax credit on Tesla cars has been scaled back, so none of the cars will be available for a total of less than $30,000, as he once heralded.Tesla has reduced prices on its other cars several times in the last two months, including cuts of up to 30 percent on its priciest models last week, suggesting sluggish sales. The online publication InsideEVs, which follows Tesla closely, estimated that the company sold fewer than 8,000 cars in January, down from nearly 30,000 a month at the end of 2018.Asked about sales trends, a Tesla spokesman pointed to a statement by Mr. Musk in his conference call about first-quarter earnings: “The demand for Model 3 is insanely high. The inhibitor is affordability. It’s just that people literally don’t have the money to buy the car.”Like its car sales, Tesla’s residential solar business has hit turbulence, a problem that may be compounded by the store closings. Tesla had positioned its stores as a retail hub for the renewable-energy age, offering electric cars, solar panels and battery storage for both car and home.“Similar to our approach to selling vehicles, we are also shifting sales of our energy and solar products worldwide to online only,” Tesla said in a statement. It said the model would allow customers to save thousands of dollars.But Allison Mond, a senior analyst at Wood Mackenzie, which tracks and supplies solar data for the Solar Energy Industries Association, said the move was likely to be counterproductive. “Online historically is not a very popular way to sell solar,” she said. “It really has not been proven.”SolarCity, the predecessor to Tesla’s solar business, once controlled two-thirds of the residential market. By the end of last year under Tesla’s control, that share was under 10 percent. The latest move, Ms. Mond said, “just adds to the story that, I think, Tesla does not care about their residential solar business.”Many Tesla customers say they have purchased cars online with no problems. For trade-ins, they were able to upload photos and get a quote back without going to a showroom for appraisal. But many still balk at buying an automobile — the second most expensive consumer purchase after a home — without seeing it first.Kevin Smith-Fagan, a television executive in Sacramento, said he did a lot of research online before buying a car, but still preferred to see it up close before making a decision.“There are intangibles that you can only know by getting into the car,” he said. “There’s a comfort level in knowing exactly what you’re getting.”Online or otherwise, Mr. Smith-Fagan is unlikely to be a buyer. He drives another electric car, the Nissan Leaf, that he bought used for $9,000. He would love to own a Tesla, he said, “but for 35 grand, it’s not in the cards.”Ivan Penn and Marina Trahan Martinez contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuTesla will reduce its full-time work force by 7 percent in an effort to lower the cost of producing its Model 3 sedan and make it a mass-market vehicle, Elon Musk, the electric-car maker’s chief executive, told employees on Friday.The least-expensive version of the Model 3 now available costs $44,000. Mr. Musk said in a companywide email that he wanted the lowest-priced Model 3 to sell for $35,000.To do so, Mr. Musk said in the email, Tesla must improve the car’s design, increase production and shed thousands of workers. “There isn’t any other way,” he wrote.Tesla shares closed down 13 percent after the announcement.The cuts, which could put more than 3,000 people out of work, follow a 9 percent reduction in Tesla’s staff in June. Another of Mr. Musk’s companies, the privately held rocket maker SpaceX, said this month that it would shrink its work force by about 10 percent.Given the continuing uncertainty in global financial markets and signs that consumers are spending less, trimming costs to focus on affordability is “a prudent thing to do” for a company that started out selling cars with an average price close to $100,000, said Romit Shah, a research analyst at Nomura Instinet.In October, Tesla reported that the third quarter of 2018 had yielded its first quarterly profit in two years, and its largest ever, thanks to cost-cutting moves, delayed payments to suppliers and a surge in production and sales.Mr. Musk said in his email on Friday that, based on preliminary, unaudited results, the company expected to earn a smaller profit in the fourth quarter.“This quarter will hopefully allow us, with great difficulty, effort and some luck, to target a tiny profit,” he wrote in his email on Friday.In the third quarter, Mr. Shah said, Tesla “needed to get to profitability to survive, and they wouldn’t have gotten there if they were selling a $35,000 car.”“They would have lost money on every car they sold,” he added, echoing a sentiment expressed by Mr. Musk last spring.To meet its production and profit targets, Tesla focused on selling more upscale models of the Model 3 to a core group of Tesla enthusiasts willing to pay the higher prices.“But there’s only a finite number of potential customers willing spend over $50,000 on a Model 3,” Mr. Shah said. “If Tesla wants to see a pathway to a million cars sold a year, they’re going to have to bring down that price point.”To succeed, the company will need to extend its appeal to a wider audience. Mr. Musk said Friday that Tesla must begin to deliver its midrange Model 3 in all markets by around May while making progress toward producing the $35,000 version he envisions.“Head count reduction is part of the process,” Philippe Houchois, an analyst at Jefferies, said in a note to clients.Tesla has already lowered prices for all of its vehicles this month by $2,000 as a federal tax credit for buyers of electric cars that was worth $7,500 last year begins to be phased out.“While we have made great progress, our products are still too expensive for most people,” Mr. Musk wrote. Last year “was the most challenging in Tesla’s history,” he added, and “the road ahead is very difficult.”Mr. Musk traveled to Shanghai this month to break ground for Tesla’s Gigafactory assembly plant. It is expected to be producing Model 3s by the end of the year.Having a base in China, which imposes a 15 percent tariff on imported cars, will give Tesla an advantage over automakers that produce vehicles outside the country. But economic activity is slowing in China, and many consumers there are cutting back on spending.The car market in the United States is also showing signs of strain, with sales flattening last year.Tesla is also contending with a challenge from traditional automakers like Ford, General Motors and Nissan, which are pushing harder into the electric-vehicle market. Audi, Jaguar, Mercedes-Benz and others have also introduced or plan to produce electric models that in many cases are less expensive than Tesla’s.As Tesla struggled last year to cope with a Model 3 production and delivery process that Mr. Musk has described as “hell,” his behavior created distractions for the company.In August, he wrote in a short, cryptic post on Twitter that he was considering taking Tesla private and had “funding secured,” surprising board members and driving up the stock price.The Securities and Exchange Commission later sued Mr. Musk in federal court, saying he had misled investors. He settled with the agency, agreeing to pay a $20 million fine and to step aside as chairman for three years.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNow that shopping for the cheapest Model 3 can’t be done online, a reporter set out to find just how difficult the process was.By Zach WichterWhen Tesla said on Thursday night that the most basic, $35,000 version of its Model 3 would no longer be offered online, my colleagues and I were confused. Isn’t a Silicon Valley company supposed to be all about the internet? Why do I need to use a phone or, worse, go to one of Tesla’s showrooms and interact with a sales representative in real life to order a high-tech car? I wanted to try the process for myself to see if Tesla’s new policy made things unnecessarily complicated.Though I stopped short of placing an order, it turned out to be quite easy to walk through the purchase process for a Model 3, both online and over the phone. Despite some conflicting information, my phone conversations with people at three Tesla stores in the New York area about buying a Model 3 were efficient and matter-of-fact. Online, it took me less than two minutes to select a car and reach the credit card information page. But you can’t necessarily get the version you’re after, even from a store. And I did learn a few things any potential Tesla buyer should know. Now that Tesla isn’t selling the bare-bones Model 3 online, the least expensive car you can buy on its website goes for $39,500. But Tesla lists the car’s price as $28,950. That figure is later described as “after savings,” and the company even displays the per-month cost of a lease in those terms. As it turns out, Tesla is using some creative math to get to that number. Savings include a $3,750 tax credit currently available to Tesla buyers, but they also include money that you would otherwise spend on gas if you bought a standard car.Using a tool on the Tesla site, you can adjust that figure by changing the number of miles per month you might drive or the cost of gasoline. The company explains what it’s doing, but this still struck me as a questionable sales tactic, especially since the price “after savings” is the first price you see on the website.For buyers looking for the $35,000 base model of the Model 3, the only way to get one without trekking to a store is to make a phone call. When it announced the sales change, Tesla said the “standard” Model 3 was actually a software-limited version of the more expensive car you can buy online. That means the range of the car on a full charge is restricted, for example, not by battery physics but by software that aims to keep it that way.A Tesla sales representative on Long Island explained this, too, and said a buyer could pay the difference for a more capable version at a later date and the car would be updated over the airwaves. For me, the biggest point of confusion had to do with test drives. Tesla says on its website that you can drive a car for a week, or less than 1,000 miles, and still return it. A sales representative in Westchester County repeated this. He also said that if I did a test drive before buying I’d have only one day to return the car, so I reasoned it was probably better to buy first, drive later. What I was told, however, conflicted with the policy as Elon Musk, Tesla’s chief executive, recently stated it on Twitter: that returns were possible within one week regardless of a test drive.A Tesla spokeswoman said this was a recent change. Word may not have reached all the stores. Another point on which the stores seem out of step with the company’s party line is in estimating the time it would take to get a car. According to the website, a car should be available in two weeks, but the Westchester store said it might take up to four, especially if I really wanted a less-expensive version of the Model 3. The store in Manhattan said I couldn’t get a $35,000 Model 3 there at all. The cheapest version it had available would cost $45,500.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Neal E. BoudetteFor weeks, analysts have speculated that Tesla has seen a marked drop in sales since the beginning of the year, and the electric-car maker’s recent gyrations on price cuts and cost-saving initiatives have only bolstered their suspicions.Recently compiled data on new-car registrations from a large portion of the United States seems to offer further support for that view. According to the Dominion Cross-Sell Report, a compilation drawn from state motor vehicle records, registrations of new Tesla vehicles fell significantly from January to February in the 23 states the report covers. The states include California, which accounts for about half of Tesla’s sales, as well as Texas, Florida and Washington, three other big markets for the carmaker.Last month, 6,252 Teslas were registered with motor vehicle agencies in the 23 states, compared with 23,310 in January and a monthly average of 13,000 to 17,000 in the fourth quarter. The totals tend to reflect a lag because cars are often not registered until the month after purchase.In December, Tesla was scrambling to sell cars before the end of the year because the federal tax credit available to its customers was set to fall by half on Jan. 1, to $3,850. So a surge in January registrations would not be unexpected. The question is whether an ensuing downturn like the one reflected in the Dominion data would prove lasting.The data for California was even starker, with registrations falling to 2,198 in February from 15,429 in January.A Tesla spokesman said a single month of vehicle registrations did not necessarily reflect the company’s delivery totals. He said registrations in individual states can fluctuate significantly from month to month because the automaker delivers batches of cars to different areas at different times.But as a place holder for Tesla’s official sales figures, such data is already having an impact. Jeffrey Osborne, an analyst at Cowen & Company, issued a research note on Friday saying the firm was lowering its Tesla price target to $180, from $200, “to reflect both state-government and third-party data that suggests deliveries during the quarter will be weaker than our prior expectations even with the typical end-of-quarter frantic push.”Tesla shares fell 3.5 percent on Friday, to $264.53.Analysts believe Tesla’s sales flagged after Jan. 1 because of the reduced tax credit, and because its efforts to accelerate sales in December pulled in customers who probably would have bought cars in the next few months. A slump that follows a sales flurry driven by discounts and incentives is a well-known phenomenon in the auto industry. It is called payback.Dominion’s data does not yet reflect Tesla’s introduction of a $35,000 version of its Model 3 sedan, its lowest-price offering yet, which is likely to lift sales. Tesla began taking orders for the $35,000 version on Feb. 28, but its website says customers will have to wait six to eight weeks for delivery. The company attributed the wait to a wave of orders for the entry-level Model 3.Still, falling registration totals are another worrisome sign for the company. Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, has said the automaker would report a loss for the first quarter and expected to take charges against earnings to reflect difficulties in ramping up sales in Europe and China and other challenges.Mr. Osborne, the Cowen analyst, said Tesla’s sales were being watched for clues to its cash position in the next few months. The company had $3.7 billion at the beginning of the year, but used $920 million to make a required payment to bondholders and may drain more cash if it suffers a substantial loss in the first quarter.Mr. Osborne said there were also questions about Tesla’s longer-term growth. “The question is, what is the naturalized rate of demand?” he said.Tesla is expected to report production and delivery totals for the first quarter in early April, followed by its earnings later in the month.Registration data and Tesla’s own sales totals have diverged in the past. In 2018, Tesla said, it delivered 245,000 cars, mostly in the United States. The research firm IHS Markit, which tracks state motor-vehicle data, counted registrations of 164,000 new Teslas nationwide.IHS Markit has not completed a registration count through February. Its nationwide data shows Tesla registrations ranging from 20,000 to 26,000 per month between October and January.Jessica Caldwell, executive director of industry analysis at Edmunds, a market researcher, said Tesla was likely to have a tougher time increasing sales after an initial rush of orders last year, the first full year of Model 3 sales.“Tesla is going to be challenged now to sell to people outside of their fan base,” she said. “They’re going to have to sell more outside of California. They’ll have to sell to more women. They’re going to have to work harder to find customers.”Tesla is also scrambling to streamline its delivery and sales operations. While warning last month of the first-quarter loss, Mr. Musk said Tesla would close all but “a small number” of its stores worldwide and rely on online sales. He said the cost savings were required to make money on the $35,000 Model 3.Less than two weeks later, Tesla reversed course and said it would keep many showrooms and reopen some that it had closed. It also said it was increasing prices by 3 percent, effective Monday, just weeks after reducing prices. Citing a flurry of orders, the company didn’t put the price increase into effect until Wednesday.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe most powerful rocket now available on Earth will wait another day for its next journey to orbit and back.By Kenneth ChangThe flight of the Falcon Heavy will have to wait another day.SpaceX announced that the giant rocket, the most powerful in operation on Earth today, could not fly on Wednesday night because of winds high in the atmosphere.Standing down from today’s Falcon Heavy launch attempt; next opportunity is tomorrow, April 11.The private spaceflight company has a backup opportunity on Thursday evening.The delay pushed back a repeat of the rocket’s majestic lift from the launchpad last February. During that test launch, the Falcon Heavy lofted a spacesuit-wearing mannequin, nicknamed Starman, into a long orbit around the sun. It sat in the driver’s seat of a red Tesla Roadster that belonged to Elon Musk, the founder and chief executive of SpaceX. Video broadcast from orbit turned into the longest car commercial ever.The spacecraft’s payload this time is mundane and useful: Arabsat-6A, a Saudi Arabian communications satellite which will relay television, internet and mobile phone signals to the Middle East, Africa and Europe.[Sign up to get reminders for space and astronomy events on your calendar.]The company’s workhorse is the Falcon 9 rocket, which first launched in 2010. The first stage of the Heavy essentially consists of three Falcon 9 first stages bound together. The second stages of the two rockets are identical. The additional thrust allows the Heavy to propel 140,000 pounds to low-Earth orbit, nearly three times what the Falcon 9 can lift.On the test flight, the two side boosters were older versions reused from earlier flights. (SpaceX’s best innovation to date is landing the booster stage of its rockets and launching it again; traditionally, rockets have been one-use throwaways, with the booster stages dropped into the ocean.)For this one, the side boosters have never before been used. They are the latest version of the rocket, called “Block Five.” (“Block” is what rocket companies call a major upgrade.) That boosts the thrust and how much the Falcon Heavy can carry.Yes. The two side boosters are to return to landing pads at Cape Canaveral, not far from the launchpad, just as in the maiden flight.The center booster, which will go higher and farther, is to set down on a floating platform in the Atlantic Ocean. That did not quite work as designed on the first try. The booster missed the platform, hitting the water at more than 300 miles per hour. Mr. Musk said the booster did not have enough ignition fuel to light the engines for the final burn.Even though the first Falcon Heavy flight appeared to be nearly flawless, SpaceX probably made adjustments. That, after all, is the reason a rocket company performs a test flight for a new rocket design.SpaceX also has had a backlog of Falcon 9 missions to fly. It launched 20 Falcon 9 missions in 2018, more than in any previous year, in addition to the one Falcon Heavy launch. The company was also busy at work developing its Crew Dragon capsule for taking NASA astronauts to and from the International Space Station.The market for the Falcon Heavy is also much smaller than once envisioned. When Mr. Musk first announced the rocket in 2011, he said he expected that there would be a 50/50 mix between the Falcon 9 and the Falcon Heavy. In the years since, improvements have made the Falcon 9 more powerful, and miniaturization of electronics has shrunk the size of many satellites.The Falcon Heavy is now needed for only the largest satellites like the 13,000-pound Arabsat-6A satellite, which is headed to geosynchronous orbit more than 22,000 miles above Earth.SpaceX launched its Falcon Heavy rocket for the second time on Thursday.One more Falcon Heavy flight is scheduled for this year — a mission for the United States Air Force carrying 25 small satellites.In addition, SpaceX has announced contracts for two Falcon Heavy launches of commercial satellites, and the company has won two competitions to use the rocket for national security missions.At present, no, but that answer could change.In 2017, SpaceX announced that two space tourists would go on an around-the-moon trip in one of the company’s Crew Dragon capsules launched by a Falcon Heavy. But when the first Heavy reached the launchpad last year, SpaceX said it had decided not to go to the expense and effort of making the rocket safe enough for launching people.The possibility of using the Falcon Heavy for lunar missions was revived last month by Jim Bridenstine, the NASA administrator, when he told a Senate committee that the big rocket that his agency is developing, the Space Launch System, would not be ready for its first test flight in 2020. NASA was looking into using commercial rockets as an alternative, he said.One of the alternatives was putting the second stage of the Space Launch System on top of a Falcon Heavy first stage. Mr. Bridenstine later said that option was feasible but could not be done by next year, because major changes would be needed to the boosters and SpaceX’s launchpad to accommodate the Frankenstein rocket combination. Mr. Bridenstine, however, left the door open, saying that NASA would explore all options to meet the Trump administrations goal of sending astronauts back to the moon by the end of 2024.SpaceX’s next-generation rocket was once known as B.F.R. where “B” stood for “big” and “R” stood for “rocket.” It now has the less colorful name Starship. SpaceX has begun small hop tests of a preliminary design, nicknamed Starhopper. The full-fledged design is to reach orbit and eventually make distant journeys to the moon and Mars, but that is still years away.One of Starship’s first passengers is to be Yusaku Maezawa, founder of the online Japanese clothing company Zozo. Mr. Maezawa had been one of the lunar tourists who had signed up for the Falcon Heavy trip around the moon but now will wait longer for the even larger rocket.Kenneth Chang has been at The Times since 2000, writing about physics, geology, chemistry, and the planets. Before becoming a science writer, he was a graduate student whose research involved the control of chaos.  @kchangnyt Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Elon Musk long promised that Tesla would offer a low-cost Model 3 electric car. Yesterday, he finally made good on that promise — but Tesla is making big sacrifices to offer the vehicle.What $35,000 gets you is a Model 3 that can cover 220 miles before needing a charge, along with a cheaper interior than higher-priced versions. The new Model 3 is expected to start shipping in two to four weeks.Tesla expects to sell a lot of them. The announcement led Mr. Musk to raise production estimates to 600,000 cars in 2019.But it will probably post a loss this quarter. Mr. Musk wouldn’t reveal what kind of margins the company would make on its lowest-priced Model 3. But he admitted, “Given that a lot is happening in Q1, we do not expect to be profitable in the first quarter.”And the company will change its business model. Tesla will only take orders online, close some of its showrooms and lay off employees to save money. “There’s no other way for us to achieve the savings for this car,” Mr. Musk said.Shareholders are worried. Tesla’s stock fell 3 percent in after-hours trading. Liam Denning of Bloomberg Opinion argues that’s “because this crowning moment came with more than a hint of a gamble.”More: Mr. Musk hired a new law firm to defend him against the S.E.C.’s attempt to hold him in contempt of court.President Trump and his top economic advisers have sent a series of conflicting messages about the status of trade talks with China, Alan Rappeport and Ana Swanson of the NYT write.• “We’re heading for a historic deal,” Larry Kudlow, director of the National Economic Council, said in an interview on CNBC yesterday. “The outlook for a deal is very positive.”• “We are well on our way to doing something special” with China, Mr. Trump told reporters yesterday.• But “I am always prepared to walk. I’m never afraid to walk from a deal,” he added. “I would do that with China, too, if it didn’t work out.”• And “much still needs to be done both before an agreement is reached and, more important, after it is reached, if one is reached,” Robert Lighthizer, Mr. Trump’s top trade negotiator, told House lawmakers on Wednesday.A final deal is being prepared according to Bloomberg, citing unidentified sources. Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China could sign it within weeks.But it may not go far enough. “We don’t look at all close to meaningful, enforced provisions on intellectual property,” Derek Scissors, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, told the NYT.And Mr. Trump has proved he will walk. After he abandoned peace talks with Kim Jong-un of North Korea yesterday, concerns that the president might settle for a poor deal now appear diminished. If he doesn’t like the terms of a China deal, the trade war could continue.More: The U.S. plans to take a hard line in negotiations with Britain over post-Brexit trade.Some of the world’s biggest internet messaging companies hope to succeed where cryptocurrency start-ups have failed by introducing consumers to the world of digital coins, Nathaniel Popper and Mike Isaac of the NYT report.“The most anticipated but secretive project is underway at Facebook. The company is working on a coin that users of WhatsApp, which Facebook owns, could send to friends and family instantly, said five people briefed on the effort who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of confidentiality agreements.”“The Facebook project is far enough along that the social networking giant has held conversations with cryptocurrency exchanges about selling the Facebook coin to consumers, said four people briefed on the negotiations.”Other platforms are working on similar initiatives. “Telegram, which has an estimated 300 million users worldwide, is also working on a digital coin. Signal, an encrypted messaging service that is popular among technologists and privacy advocates, has its own coin in the works. And so do the biggest messaging applications in South Korea and Japan, Kakao and Line.”“The new cryptocurrencies would make it easier to move money between countries,” Mr. Popper and Mr. Isaac write. “But the messaging companies are likely to face many of the same regulatory and technological hurdles that have kept Bitcoin from going mainstream.”The American economy slowed at the end of 2018. But there may be worse to come.Gross domestic product growth slowed at the end of last year. It grew at a 2.6 percent annual rate in the final three months of 2018, Ben Casselman of the NYT reports, compared to a rate of over 4 percent in the middle of the year.“This year seems to be starting at an even slower pace,” Mr. Casselman writes. “Many economists expect growth to drop below 2 percent in the first quarter, in part because of the partial government shutdown, which began in December and extended through most of January.”But the final quarter slowdown wasn’t as severe as many economists had expected. “Even with the loss of momentum late in the year, 2018 as a whole was among the best years of the decade-long recovery from the Great Recession,” Mr. Casselman writes, adding, “Most economists do not expect a recession this year.”And the Fed remains optimistic. “The economy is in a good place,” Jay Powell, the central bank’s chairman, said yesterday.Richard Plepler helped make “The Sopranos” and “Game of Thrones,” two iconic HBO series. But he now plans to step down as the company’s chief executive, in a huge shift under the company’s new owner, AT&T.Mr. Plepler chafed at losing autonomy under his new bosses, the NYT reports, citing unnamed sources. AT&T has been in talks to hire Robert Greenblatt, a longtime TV executive, for a high-level role at Warner Media, which includes HBO, Turner and Warner Bros. Mr. Plepler may have had to report to a former rival.He already had issues with AT&T, particularly John Stankey, the head of Warner Media. Last June, the two men taunted each other uncomfortably in public. Mr. Stankey said that Warner Media needed to make money. Mr. Plepler responded, “We do that” — to which his boss said, “Just not enough.”His departure could precede a larger shake up. Unnamed HBO executives told Peter Kafka of Recode that AT&T wants to further integrate HBO with other Warner Media properties. (Think: early seasons of “Game of Thrones” on TBS.)But it’s a gamble. AT&T believes that it can put good managers into any business and succeed, but Mr. Plepler is beloved by HBO talent. Alex Gibney, who directed a documentary on the health technology company Theranos for the network, called the executive’s departure “dismaying.”In his testimony on Capitol Hill this week, Michael Cohen mentioned several Trump associates whom lawmakers should call in for further questioning. Among them, the NYT reports: Allen Weisselberg, the Trump Organization’s C.F.O. and a longtime financial adviser to President Trump.• “On Wednesday, Mr. Cohen specifically identified Mr. Weisselberg as helping mastermind a strategy to mask reimbursements to Mr. Cohen for his payment to Stormy Daniels, the pornographic film actress who said she had an affair with Mr. Trump.”• “For decades, he has represented Mr. Trump on paperwork for everything from complex real estate deals to the operations of the antique carousel in Central Park, which the Trump Organization runs.”• “Corey Lewandowski, a former Trump campaign official, wrote in a book that he co-authored, ‘Let Trump Be Trump’ that Mr. Weisselberg ‘knows of every dime that leaves the building.’”• President Trump thinks his longtime finance chief wouldn’t turn on him, but others aren’t so sure. “I am sure Allen does not want to hurt Donald, I am sure there is an affection there,” Barbara Res, a former Trump Organization executive, told the NYT. “But he’s in a terrible position — and Donald put him there.”We may hear more from Mr. Weisselberg. The House Intelligence Committee plans to call him as a witness, and the House Committee on Oversight and Reform may as well.Andrew Wheeler was confirmed as the administrator of the E.P.A.Two top G.M. executives — Alicia Boler Davis, the carmaker’s global head of manufacturing, and Alan Batey, the head of North American operations — are leaving.Peter Higgins resigned as the C.F.O. of Revolut, a British payments start-up, in January as questions mounted about the company’s financial compliance.Canopy Growth, a Canadian marijuana producer, hired Martha Stewart as an adviser.Deals• Uber and Lyft plan to let drivers buy shares in their forthcoming I.P.O.s. Meanwhile, Uber is said to be nearing a deal to buy a Middle Eastern rival, Careem, for about $3 billion. (NYT, Bloomberg)• Gap plans to spin off Old Navy into a separate company. (NYT)• Shareholders think that Southwest Airlines may be the next elephant-sized acquisition for Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway. (Fortune)• Starboard Value plans to vote against Bristol-Myers Squibb’s $74 billion deal to buy Celgene. (Bloomberg)• Investors in big private equity firms are worried that fund managers will overpay for deals. (Reuters)Politics and policy• As more tax returns have been processed, Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that the average Americans’ refund has grown. (CNBC)• Two Republican senators, Martha McSally and Mike Braun, said they would return political contributions from the billionaire John Childs, who was charged with soliciting prostitutes. (WaPo)• President Trump ordered officials to give his son-in-law, Jared Kushner, a permanent security clearance, despite their objections. (NYT)• For Democrats thinking of running for president, the question is whether they should announce early — or really, really early. (NYT)Brexit• “Brexit fatigue” in the E.U. could hinder any effort by Britain to delay its withdrawal process. (Reuters)• Can Prime Minister Theresa May push her Brexit deal through a Parliamentary vote? Bloomberg crunched the numbers. (Bloomberg)• Net migration of European nationals to Britain has fallen 70 percent since the country decided to leave the E.U. (FT)• British financial firms will have 15 months to fully comply with rules that replace E.U. laws in the event of a no-deal Brexit. (Reuters)Tech• Huawei took out a full-page ad in the WSJ that read, “Don’t believe everything you hear.” Meanwhile, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo says that the world should have its “eyes wide open” to the national security threat posed by the telecom company. And Canada is expected to announce that an extradition hearing for Huawei’s C.F.O. can proceed. (CNN, Reuters)• SpaceX plans to test its manned flight space capsule for the first time this weekend — without any passengers aboard. (NYT)• YouTube will disable comments on almost all videos that feature children in the wake of its recent pedophile scandal. (Verge)• Amazon has its own misinformation problem, centered on anti-vaccination conspiracy theories. The company is also trying to clamp down on counterfeits. (CNN, WSJ)• The N.Y.S.E. is favoring humans over bots to smooth out trading in E.T.F.s. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Big Pharma’s hunt for new drugs is pushing up the cost of the deals it makes to acquire biotech companies. (DealBook)• PG&E says it likely caused the fire that destroyed Paradise, Calif. (NYT)• The billionaire Sheldon Adelson disclosed that he’s being treated for cancer. (Bloomberg)• MSCI plans to quadruple the weighting of Chinese mainland shares in its global benchmarks later this year. (CNBC)• How the financier Greg Lindberg diverted $2 billion from insurance firms he bought into his own ventures. (WSJ)• Wall Street’s latest tax dodge involves buying private planes. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Neal E. BoudetteTesla reported a record quarter on Wednesday, and investors responded with a sell-off.The automaker said it delivered 63,150 Model 3 sedans in the fourth quarter, 13 percent more than in the third quarter. But even that gain fell short of some analysts’ expectations.The growth rate was also well off that of the third quarter, when Model 3 sales more than doubled amid a rush of initial orders as Tesla began high-volume production of the car, on which it has staked its future.And even while the fourth quarter brought overall sales of 90,000 for the first time, the company said Wednesday that it was cutting prices of all models by $2,000 per car. It said the move was meant to partly absorb the reduction of a federal electric-vehicle tax credit for Tesla buyers. But it could also signal that Tesla is trying to insulate itself against softer demand now that it has satisfied the early orders for the Model 3, its first mass-market offering.“The debate is where U.S. demand will be after the initial wave” of buyers, said Brian Johnson, an auto analyst at Barclays Capital. “We have been expecting a lull in the first quarter, or maybe even the first half.”Tesla shares ended trading nearly 7 percent lower.The sales figures were a report card on a year in which its chief executive, Elon Musk, said, “We’ve gone from production hell to delivery logistics hell.” For the first six months of 2018, Tesla struggled to work the kinks out of its Model 3 production lines, and at times was unable to make more than a handful per day.Mr. Musk acknowledged the production system relied too much on automated machinery that was ill suited to certain precision tasks and had to be removed and replaced by human workers. The company also set up a third assembly line in a giant tent outside its factory in Fremont, Calif. Finally, in the second half of 2018, its average weekly production rose to more than 4,000 cars a week, although that was still below its target of 5,000.Tesla ran into trouble delivering the thousands of cars that were rolling off its assembly lines, leaving hundreds of new Model 3s parked in inventory lots in California and other states as the company scrambled to match cars with customers and ship them across the country. Mr. Musk said at one point that Tesla was beginning to make its own auto-hauling trailers to speed deliveries, and later asserted that the company had acquired three trucking companies, although Tesla has not released their names or any details of the transactions.Despite the difficulties, deliveries soared in the third quarter, and the company reported a profit of $312 million, easing concerns about its finances. And even with the decline in Tesla’s shares Wednesday, investors still give the company a higher market value than any of Detroit’s established automakers.In the fourth quarter, Tesla rushed to ship as many cars as possible to ensure that customers could take advantage of the $7,500 federal tax credit for electric cars that was available to Tesla buyers. Under the rules of the program, the credit begins to phase out two quarters after a manufacturer’s cumulative sales reach 200,000 electric vehicles. Since Tesla crossed that threshold in July, the tax credit available to Tesla buyers fell to $3,750 on Jan. 1. It falls again on July 1, to $1,875, and ends on Jan. 1, 2020.General Motors is also about to see the credit scaled back for its customers. G.M.’s cumulative sales of electrified vehicles rose in December to more than 200,000, according to a person briefed on the matter. As a result, buyers of the battery-powered Chevrolet Bolt and hybrid Chevy Volt will qualify for the full tax credit only until March 31.Analysts will be watching closely to see if the halving of the federal tax credit slows the growth rate of Model 3 sales further in the first quarter. They said the fourth-quarter growth rate was modest, given Tesla’s rush to deliver cars before end of the year, and the incentives it offered to entice buyers.The company reported that only 1,010 Model 3s were in transit to customers at the end of the quarter, down from more than 8,000 on Sept. 30. At the same time, deliveries of Tesla’s other two cars — the Model S luxury sedan and the Model X sport-utility vehicle — were flat in the fourth quarter, raising questions about demand for those vehicles.“Sustainability of Model 3 demand is likely to emerge as key investor question,” Toni Sacconaghi, of Sanford C. Bernstein & Company, wrote in a note to clients.Over all, Tesla delivered 90,700 cars in the fourth quarter, up 9 percent from the third quarter. Production rose 8 percent to 86,555 vehicles, including 61,394 Model 3s. For the full year, Tesla sold 245,240 cars, an increase of about 100,000 from 2017.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Neal E. BoudetteAfter lurching from crisis to crisis last year, Tesla appeared to have found its footing in January when it reported its second consecutive quarterly profit and said it had more than enough cash to pay off bonds coming due in March.The calm did not last.On Wednesday, Tesla said its general counsel was leaving the job after just two months. It was the second unexpected departure of a high-level Tesla executive in less than a month and one of dozens in the last three years.The general counsel, Dane Butswinkas, was a prominent Washington trial lawyer who represented the company’s chief executive, Elon Musk, when he was sued by the Securities and Exchange Commission last year over claims that he had secured funding to take the company private. Tesla said Mr. Butswinkas had decided to return to his law firm and would be replaced by Jonathan Chang, a vice president in its legal department.Three weeks earlier, on Jan. 30, Mr. Musk surprised analysts on a conference call by announcing that Tesla’s chief financial officer, Deepak Ahuja, would retire without saying exactly when. Last year, Tesla’s chief accounting officer, David Morton, stepped down after just a month on the job. Mr. Morton’s predecessor, Eric Branderiz, left after 14 months. All told, Tesla has lost more than 40 senior executives since the beginning of 2016, according to a list compiled by Reuters.Mr. Butswinkas’s departure was all the more noteworthy because it came less than 24 hours after Mr. Musk made an ambitious prediction on Twitter about the company’s production goals, an action that raised questions about his compliance with the settlement that he and Tesla reached with the S.E.C.Mr. Musk said that he expected the company to produce 500,000 cars this year — 100,000 more than he had forecast just three weeks earlier. Four hours later, Mr. Musk said he had misspoken.In the settlement with the S.E.C., he and Tesla had agreed that it would put in place “mandatory procedures to oversee and preapprove Mr. Musk’s Tesla-related written communications” that might have material information. A Tesla spokesman declined to comment on what scrutiny had been given to Mr. Musk’s incorrect Tuesday statement before it was posted.The S.E.C.’s securities fraud case stemmed from a Twitter post in August in which Mr. Musk said he planned to take the company private at $420 a share and had “funding secured.” In addition to the condition about reviewing his statements, Mr. Musk agreed to step down as chairman; he and the company each paid penalties of $20 million; and the company added two new independent directors.“I don’t think it’s a coincidence that the general counsel is leaving after a tweet that appears to violate the agreement,” said Rebecca Lindland, executive editor of RebeccaDrives.com, an auto-industry and car review website. “It calls into question the oversight of the board and the adherence to the S.E.C. settlement.”The S.E.C. and the Justice Department have been looking into whether Mr. Musk misled investors about its production goals. Mr. Musk had once predicted that Tesla would make 500,000 cars in 2018. The company actually made about 245,000 cars last year.Tesla said in a securities filing on Tuesday that it “will continue to cooperate with government authorities.”The stream of executive departures is one of several challenges for Tesla. It is scrambling to secure financing to build a plant in China, one that Mr. Musk has vowed would begin churning out cars by the end of this year. Sales of its two most profitable models, the Model S luxury sedan and the Model X sport utility vehicle, are flat. And it is still unable to produce a $35,000 version of the Model 3 sedan, which many customers are holding out for.Next month, Tesla has to pay bondholders $920 million, which would consume about a quarter of the $3.7 billion it had in cash at the end of December.The company’s stock closed down 1 percent on Wednesday.Tesla’s sales appear to have dropped off markedly since the beginning of the year, when a federal tax credit available to Tesla customers was cut in half, to $3,750. An online publication that follows Tesla closely, InsideEVs, has estimated that the company sold 6,500 cars in January, a 75 percent drop from the final months of 2018, when buyers could still take advantage of the full tax credit.Tesla has declined to comment on the estimate, but customer traffic appears to have dropped off significantly at its showrooms. On Saturday afternoon, a saleswoman at a company store in Warrendale, Pa., near Pittsburgh, showed a customer a Model 3 while six other employees stood idly by. While more than 50 Teslas were parked in the back, just two cars were parked in spots reserved for prospective buyers.In addition, as production and sales have increased, so have complaints about quality and customer service. Many customers have had to wait months to have their cars repaired because of shortages of replacement parts.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byI saw the greatest minds of my generation log 18-hour days — and then boast about #hustle on Instagram. When did performative workaholism become a lifestyle?By Erin GriffithNever once at the start of my workweek — not in my morning coffee shop line; not in my crowded subway commute; not as I begin my bottomless inbox slog — have I paused, looked to the heavens and whispered: #ThankGodIt’sMonday. Apparently, that makes me a traitor to my generation. I learned this during a series of recent visits to WeWork locations in New York, where the throw pillows implore busy tenants to “Do what you love.” Neon signs demand they “Hustle harder,” and murals spread the gospel of T.G.I.M. Even the cucumbers in WeWork’s water coolers have an agenda. “Don’t stop when you’re tired,” someone recently carved into the floating vegetables’ flesh. “Stop when you are done.” Kool-Aid drinking metaphors are rarely this literal.Welcome to hustle culture. It is obsessed with striving, relentlessly positive, devoid of humor, and — once you notice it — impossible to escape. “Rise and Grind” is both the theme of a Nike ad campaign and the title of a book by a “Shark Tank” shark. New media upstarts like the Hustle, which produces a popular business newsletter and conference series, and One37pm, a content company created by the patron saint of hustling, Gary Vaynerchuk, glorify ambition not as a means to an end, but as a lifestyle.“The current state of entrepreneurship is bigger than career,” reads the One37pm “About Us” page. “It’s ambition, grit and hustle. It’s a live performance that lights up your creativity … a sweat session that sends your endorphins coursing ... a visionary who expands your way of thinking.” From this point of view, not only does one never stop hustling — one never exits a kind of work rapture, in which the chief purpose of exercising or attending a concert is to get inspiration that leads back to the desk.Ryan Harwood, the chief executive of One37pm’s parent company, told me that the site’s content is aimed at a younger generation of people who are seeking permission to follow their dreams. “They want to know how to own their moment, at any given moment,” he said.“Owning one’s moment” is a clever way to rebrand “surviving the rat race.” In the new work culture, enduring or even merely liking one’s job is not enough. Workers should love what they do, and then promote that love on social media, thus fusing their identities to that of their employers. Why else would LinkedIn build its own version of Snapchat Stories?This is toil glamour, and it is going mainstream. Most visibly, WeWork — which investors recently valued at $47 billion — is on its way to becoming the Starbucks of office culture. It has exported its brand of performative workaholism to 27 countries, with 400,000 tenants, including workers from 30 percent of the Global Fortune 500.In January, WeWork’s founder, Adam Neumann, announced that his start-up was rebranding itself as the We Company, to reflect an expansion into residential real estate and education. Describing the shift, Fast Company wrote: “Rather than just renting desks, the company aims to encompass all aspects of people’s lives, in both physical and digital worlds.” The ideal client, one imagines, is someone so enamored of the WeWork office aesthetic — whip-cracking cucumbers and all — that she sleeps in a WeLive apartment, works out at a Rise by We gym, and sends her children to a WeGrow school.From this vantage, “Office Space,” the Gen-X slacker paean that came out 20 years ago next month, feels like science fiction from a distant realm. It’s almost impossible to imagine a start-up worker bee of today confessing, as protagonist Peter Gibbons does, “It’s not that I’m lazy. It’s that I just don’t care.” Workplace indifference just doesn’t have a socially acceptable hashtag.It’s not difficult to view hustle culture as a swindle. After all, convincing a generation of workers to beaver away is convenient for those at the top.“The vast majority of people beating the drums of hustle-mania are not the people doing the actual work. They’re the managers, financiers and owners,” said David Heinemeier Hansson, the co-founder of Basecamp, a software company. We spoke in October, as he was promoting his new book, “It Doesn’t Have to Be Crazy at Work,” about creating healthy company cultures.Mr. Heinemeier Hansson said that despite data showing long hours improve neither productivity nor creativity, myths about overwork persist because they justify the extreme wealth created for a small group of elite techies. “It’s grim and exploitative,” he said.Elon Musk, who stands to reap stock compensation upward of $50 billion if his company, Tesla, meets certain performance levels, is a prime example of extolling work by the many that will primarily benefit him. He tweeted in November that there are easier places to work than Tesla, “but nobody ever changed the world on 40 hours a week.” The correct number of hours “varies per person,” he continued, but is “about 80 sustained, peaking about 100 at times. Pain level increases exponentially above 80.”Mr. Musk, who has more than 24 million Twitter followers, further noted that if you love what you do, “it (mostly) doesn’t feel like work.” Even he had to soften the lie of T.G.I.M. with a parenthetical.Arguably, the technology industry started this culture of work zeal sometime around the turn of the millennium, when the likes of Google started to feed, massage and even play doctor to its employees. The perks were meant to help companies attract the best talent — and keep employees at their desks longer. It seemed enviable enough: Who wouldn’t want an employer that literally took care of your dirty laundry?But today, as tech culture infiltrates every corner of the business world, its hymns to the virtues of relentless work remind me of nothing so much as Soviet-era propaganda, which promoted impossible-seeming feats of worker productivity to motivate the labor force. One obvious difference, of course, is that those Stakhanovite posters had an anticapitalist bent, criticizing the fat cats profiting from free enterprise. Today’s messages glorify personal profit, even if bosses and investors — not workers — are the ones capturing most of the gains. Wage growth has been essentially stagnant for years.Perhaps we’ve all gotten a little hungry for meaning. Participation in organized religion is falling, especially among American millennials. In San Francisco, where I live, I’ve noticed that the concept of productivity has taken on an almost spiritual dimension. Techies here have internalized the idea — rooted in the Protestant work ethic — that work is not something you do to get what you want; the work itself is all. Therefore any life hack or company perk that optimizes their day, allowing them to fit in even more work, is not just desirable but inherently good.Aidan Harper, who created a European workweek-shrinkage campaign called 4 Day Week, argues that this is dehumanizing and toxic. “It creates the assumption that the only value we have as human beings is our productivity capability — our ability to work, rather than our humanity,” he told me.It’s cultist, Mr. Harper added, to convince workers to buy into their own exploitation with a change-the-world message. “It’s creating the idea that Elon Musk is your high priest,” he said. “You’re going into your church every day and worshiping at the altar of work.”For congregants of the Cathedral of Perpetual Hustle, spending time on anything that’s nonwork related has become a reason to feel guilty. Jonathan Crawford, a San Francisco-based entrepreneur, told me that he sacrificed his relationships and gained more than 40 pounds while working on Storenvy, his e-commerce start-up. If he socialized, it was at a networking event. If he read, it was a business book. He rarely did anything that didn’t have a “direct R.O.I.,” or return on investment, for his company.Mr. Crawford changed his lifestyle after he realized it made him miserable. Now, as an entrepreneur-in-residence at 500 Start-ups, an investment firm, he tells fellow founders to seek out nonwork-related activities like reading fiction, watching movies or playing games. Somehow this comes off as radical advice. “It’s oddly eye-opening to them because they didn’t realize they saw themselves as a resource to be expended,” Mr. Crawford said.It’s easy to become addicted to the pace and stress of work in 2019. Bernie Klinder, a consultant for a large tech company, said he tried to limit himself to five 11-hour days per week, which adds up to an extra day of productivity. “If your peers are competitive, working a ‘normal workweek’ will make you look like a slacker,” he wrote in an email.Still, he’s realistic about his place in the rat race. “I try to keep in mind that if I dropped dead tomorrow, all of my acrylic workplace awards would be in the trash the next day,” he wrote, “and my job would be posted in the paper before my obituary.”The logical endpoint of excessively avid work, of course, is burnout. That is the subject of a recent viral essay by the BuzzFeed cultural critic Anne Helen Petersen, which thoughtfully addresses one of the incongruities of hustle-mania in the young. Namely: If Millennials are supposedly lazy and entitled, how can they also be obsessed with killing it at their jobs?Millennials, Ms. Petersen argues, are just desperately striving to meet their own high expectations. An entire generation was raised to expect that good grades and extracurricular overachievement would reward them with fulfilling jobs that feed their passions. Instead, they wound up with precarious, meaningless work and a mountain of student loan debt. And so posing as a rise-and-grinder, lusty for Monday mornings, starts to make sense as a defense mechanism.Most jobs — even most good jobs! — are full of pointless drudgery. Most corporations let us down in some way. And yet years after the HBO satire “Silicon Valley” made the vacuous mission statement “making the world a better place” a recurring punch line, many companies still cheerlead the virtues of work with high-minded messaging. For example, Spotify, a company that lets you listen to music, says that its mission is “to unlock the potential of human creativity.” Dropbox, which lets you upload files and stuff, says its purpose is “to unleash the world’s creative energy by designing a more enlightened way of working.”David Spencer, a professor of economics at Leeds University Business School, says that such posturing by companies, economists and politicians dates at least to the rise of mercantilism in 16th-century Europe. “There has been an ongoing struggle by employers to venerate work in ways that distract from its unappealing features,” he said. But such propaganda can backfire. In 17th-century England, work was lauded as a cure for vice, Mr. Spencer said, but the unrewarding truth just drove workers to drink more.Internet companies may have miscalculated in encouraging employees to equate their work with their intrinsic value as human beings. After a long era of basking in positive esteem, the tech industry is experiencing a backlash both broad and fierce, on subjects from monopolistic behavior to spreading disinformation and inciting racial violence. And workers are discovering how much power they wield. In November, some 20,000 Googlers participated in a walkout protesting the company’s handling of sexual abusers. Other company employees shut down an artificial intelligence contract with the Pentagon that could have helped military drones become more lethal.Mr. Heinemeier Hansson cited the employee protests as evidence that millennial workers would eventually revolt against the culture of overwork. “People aren’t going to stand for this,” he said, using an expletive, “or buy the propaganda that eternal bliss lies at monitoring your own bathroom breaks.” He was referring to an interview that the former chief executive of Yahoo, Marissa Mayer, gave in 2016, in which she said that working 130 hours a week was possible “if you’re strategic about when you sleep, when you shower, and how often you go to the bathroom.”Ultimately, workers must decide if they admire or reject this level of devotion. Ms. Mayer’s comments were widely panned on social media when the interview ran, but since then, Quora users have eagerly shared their own strategies for mimicking her schedule. Likewise, Mr. Musk’s “pain level” tweets drew plenty of critical takes, but they also garnered just as many accolades and requests for jobs.The grim reality of 2019 is that begging a billionaire for employment via Twitter is not considered embarrassing, but a perfectly plausible way to get ahead. On some level, you have to respect the hustlers who see a dismal system and understand that success in it requires total, shameless buy-in. If we’re doomed to toil away until we die, we may as well pretend to like it. Even on Mondays.Erin Griffith reports on technology start-ups and venture capital from the San Francisco bureau. Before joining The Times she was a senior writer at WIRED and Fortune.  @eringriffith Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Tim GrayThree of the first quarter’s top-performing mutual funds won big by favoring small- and midcap growth stocks, toting up quarterly returns of 25 percent or more.The Virtus Zevenbergen Innovative Growth Stock Fund buys shares of companies of all sizes — its largest holding lately has been Amazon — but its big winners, so far this year, have been smaller fare such as WayFair, an online seller of home furnishings, and the Trade Desk, an online advertising marketplace.Nancy A. Zevenbergen, the fund’s lead manager, said her interest in growth stocks dates to the ’80s. She worked then in the trust department of a Seattle bank and followed — and was fascinated by — the 1986 initial public stock sale of a homegrown outfit named Microsoft. (Microsoft is based in the Seattle suburb of Redmond, Wash.) A year later, she started Zevenbergen Capital Investments in Seattle. Her mutual fund began in 2004.Being on the West Coast has proved an advantage, she said. Not only has Seattle birthed tech giants like Microsoft and Amazon, but “Silicon Valley is a day trip for us,” she said.Throughout her career, she has sought stocks she thinks can keep increasing revenue by at least 15 percent a year. Her mantra is: “Revenue growth, revenue growth, revenue growth,” she said.Favorite holdings can stay in the fund for years: Mercadolibre, an Argentine e-commerce outfit, has been there for a decade. That stock was lately one of only 31 in the fund, compared with 157 for the average actively managed United States stock fund tracked by Morningstar.Ms. Zevenbergen says she prefers companies that are run by their founders. As an example, she pointed to Microsoft. The stock soared while one of the founders, Bill Gates, steered the company but languished under his successor, Steven A. Ballmer. What’s more, boards of directors are typically not as patient with outsider C.E.O.s, and long-term investments require patience, she said.Her liking for founder-led outfits is part of the reason her fund has owned Tesla, the electric-car maker led by Elon Musk, since its 2010 initial public stock offering. Despite Tesla’s recent operational problems, she said: “Elon Musk is doing things people said couldn’t be done — and he’s up against an old, established industry and organized labor.”Ms. Zevenbergen added: “You can often get a C.E.O. with an M.B.A. from Harvard, but do they have the passion to run the business that the founder had?”The Virtus Zevenbergen fund, whose A shares have a net expense ratio of 1.25 percent, returned 25.24 percent in the first quarter, compared with a total return of 13.65 percent for the S&P 500 stock index.Matthew A. Weatherbie, one of the managers of the Alger SMid Cap Focus Fund, has been chasing growth stocks even longer than Ms. Zevenbergen. His investment career began in the ’70s, and he ran Putnam Voyager, then a well-known fund, starting in 1983. He left Putnam to start his own investment company in 1995, and he has managed the Alger fund since 2017. (Alger Associates acquired Mr. Weatherbie’s company in 2017.)Like Ms. Zevenbergen, he said his investment philosophy has remained consistent. “There have been some tweaks over time, but the basic process is the same,” he said. He and his co-managers seek companies in a growth sweet spot, he said. “They’ve been in business long enough to survive the perils of infancy, but they’ve got a long runway of growth ahead of them.”How three of the better performers of the first quarter of 2019 fared against the market — and against their peer groups of funds.Virtus Zevenbergen Innovative+30%+20+10S. & P. 500 TOTAL RET.0JFMFIRST-QUARTER RETURNSVirtus Zevenbergen Innovative+25.2%Large-cap growth+16.0%Alger SMid Cap Focus+30%+20+10S. & P. 500 TOTAL RET.0JFMFIRST-QUARTER RETURNSAlger SMid Cap Focus+30.6%Mid-cap growth+19.1%Lord Abbett Developing Growth+30%+20+10S. & P. 500 TOTAL RET.0JFMFIRST-QUARTER RETURNSLord Abbett Developing Growth+27.1%Small-cap growth+18.1%Virtus Zevenbergen InnovativeAlger SMid Cap FocusLord Abbett Developing Growth+30%+30%+30%+20+20+20+10+10+10S. & P. 500 TOTAL RET.S. & P. 500 TOTAL RET.S. & P. 500 TOTAL RET.000JFMJFMJFMFIRST-QUARTER RETURNSVirtus Zevenbergen InnovativeAlger SMid Cap FocusLord Abbett Developing Growth+25.2%+30.6%+27.1%Large-cap growthMid-cap growthSmall-cap growth+16.0%+19.1%+18.1%By The New York Times | Source: Morningstar DirectHoldings also must have “a competitive moat around the business, a strong balance sheet, high inherent profitability and a high-quality management team,” he said.To assemble the portfolio, the fund’s managers and analysts collaborate to identify 50 holdings that meet these criteria. Mr. Weatherbie and his co-portfolio managers — H. George Dai and Joshua D. Bennett — next take an unusual step.They divide the portfolio into three baskets. The managers then independently evaluate the 50 stocks, each determining the portion of the fund’s assets dedicated to each stock in his basket. As a result, the fund’s largest stakes are the stocks most favored by all three.“Why is Chegg or FirstService a top five holding?” Mr. Weatherbie asked. “Because each of us has determined that those are high-conviction names.”Chegg is an education-services company, while FirstService is a property manager and service provider for condos and cooperatives.Mr. Bennett said both companies exemplify something the managers hunt for: They’re fast growers in “mundane markets” not associated with zippy stocks in the way, say, consumer electronics and online entertainment are. Mr. Weatherbie added: “Our process enables us to identify hidden gems in mundane industries.”The Alger fund, whose A shares have an expense ratio of 1.33 percent, returned 30.58 percent in the first quarter.F. Thomas O’Halloran, the lead manager of the Lord Abbett Developing Growth Fund, seeks companies that show both disruption and momentum. For example, he has won lately with such well-known names as Yeti Holdings, the maker of insulated cups and coolers, and Roku, the video streaming outfit.These companies are disrupting their industries, he says, and their shares have lately trended upward.Take Roku and its streaming devices, which compete with ones sold by such tech behemoths as Apple and Amazon. “It’s not that one form of streaming is better than another,” Mr. O’Halloran said. “It’s that streaming is better than cable and regular TV, and Roku is the only Swiss-neutral platform.” Other devices are interwoven with technologies or business models peddled by their sellers.Mr. O’Halloran said he often finds promising picks among consumer stocks for the simple reason that consumer purchases drive growth in the United States. “That’s where 70 percent of spending in U.S. economy is,” he said.When considering what to wager on, Mr. O’Halloran said, he prefers companies with hefty potential markets — like Yeti. “The whole planet likes its food and beverages at the right temperature,” he said.He differs from some portfolio managers in that he bars members of his analyst team from writing reports on the companies they follow, relying instead on quick emails and frequent meetings. Churning out reports can lead to delays and self-defeating behavior, he said. “By the time you get a report done, a quarter to half of the stock move may be over. And when the stock peaks, you don’t want to let it go, because you wrote the big report on it.”Mr. O’Halloran’s fund, whose A shares have an expense ratio of 0.93 percent, returned 27.13 percent in the first quarter.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Lawyers for Tesla CEO Elon Musk and U.S. securities regulators are getting another week to negotiate a deal to keep Musk from being found in contempt of court.Both sides say in a letter filed Thursday with a federal court in New York that they talked for over an hour this week and are continuing to discuss an agreement. District Judge Alison Nathan granted the request to talk until April 25.Lawyers for the Securities and Exchange Commission asked the court to find Musk in contempt for violating a settlement order that requires Musk's tweets to be approved by a lawyer if they disclose important company facts.Nathan had ordered both sides to meet and work out differences by Thursday.The settlement was reached last year after Musk tweeted he had secured funding to take Tesla private even though he had not. The SEC says Musk violated that agreement when he tweeted about vehicle production without approval in February.Nathan had ordered both sides to meet for at least an hour to work out their differences and if they couldn't, she would rule on whether to hold Musk in contempt.The settlement was reached last October after Musk tweeted that he had secured funding to take Tesla private when in fact he had not. The tweet sent Tesla's stock on a wild ride and the SEC says it harmed investors who bought shares after the tweet but before they had accurate information.The SEC says Musk violated the agreement when he tweeted about vehicle production in February without approval.The 13-word tweet said Tesla would produce around 500,000 vehicles this year. But it wasn't approved by Tesla's ""disclosure counsel,"" and the SEC said Musk had not sought a lawyer's approval for a single tweet.Musk argued the tweet didn't need approval because it wasn't new information that was meaningful to investors. His attorneys said the SEC was violating his First Amendment right to free speech.Musk tweeted about vehicle production again on Sunday, writing that Tesla will make 500,000 cars in the next 12 months. The SEC did not respond to requests for comment on that tweet.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Neal E. BoudetteA potential rival to Tesla in electric cars just got a big boost from Amazon.The online retail giant is leading a $700 million investment in Rivian, a Michigan company that is developing a battery-powered pickup truck and an electric sport utility vehicle. The automaker announced the new round of investment on Friday, offering few details but saying it would remain independent.Founded in 2009 by an M.I.T.-trained engineer, R. J. Scaringe, Rivian first showed its truck and S.U.V. at the Los Angeles Auto Show in November. The key feature of each is a chassis that is shaped like a skateboard and includes all the components that propel the vehicles — a large battery pack, axles, suspension, cooling system and four electric motors. The company says its pickup will be able to go up to 400 miles on a full charge.The deal is the latest example of how the auto industry is being reshaped by new technologies and nimble companies that have raced ahead of many traditional carmakers. While General Motors, Ford Motor and others are scrambling to introduce new electric vehicles, Tesla has become by far the leading seller of electric cars in the United States. Waymo, a division of Google’s parent company, Alphabet, is considered by some analysts to be the leading developer of autonomous vehicles.“We’re inspired by Rivian’s vision for the future of electric transportation,” Jeff Wilke, Amazon’s chief executive for worldwide consumer, said in a statement. “R. J. has built an impressive organization, with a product portfolio and technology to match. We’re thrilled to invest in such an innovative company.”An Amazon spokeswoman declined to elaborate on the thinking behind the Rivian investment.Since 2015, Amazon has been building out its own logistics network, one that is a “global, end-to-end network covering all transportation modalities,” Morgan Stanley said in a research note last month. It owns dozens of planes and has a transoceanic shipping operation, not to mention trucks, rail and other ways to deliver products and packages. The company spent more than $27 billion on worldwide shipping last year.Amazon relies on contract drivers in passenger cars and trucks to make many last-minute deliveries quicker than it can through delivery partners like the United States Postal Service. Last month, the company said it was testing a delivery device called Scout, which is the size of a large ice chest that can “roll along sidewalks at a walking pace.” The company says it is using the devices to deliver packages to customers in a suburb near Amazon’s Seattle headquarters.The company ordered 20,000 Mercedes-Benz vans last year for its delivery partners to shuttle Amazon products to consumers, but those vans run on diesel, a fossil fuel. The company has also been facing pressure from employees looking to reduce its environmental impact, particularly in its logistics operations.And last week, Amazon made a “significant” investment in Aurora, a California start-up that is developing self-driving technology. Aurora is led by Chris Urmson, who previously headed Alphabet’s autonomous car effort.“For Amazon, this small investment is a good way to enlarge their bet on the E.V. automotive market without having to tool up a plant to find out if it will fly,” said Matt DeLorenzo, senior managing editor of Kelley Blue Book. “Over time, the Rivian investment could give Amazon a starting point to own and operate an in-house package delivery business.”Rivian previously raised about $500 million from Sumitomo, a Japanese conglomerate known for its tire division, and Abdul Latif Jameel, a Saudi industrial group. Those earlier investors also took part in the new investment round, though the companies did not say how much money they put in.At the Los Angeles show, Mr. Scaringe described the company's pickup, the R1T, and its S.U.V., the R1S, as upscale vehicles that could be used for off-road adventures. They are intended to compete for motorists who buy pricey Land Rovers and Porsche S.U.V.s. Rivian’s vehicles are expected to sell for $68,000 or more.“This is a vehicle you can use,” Mr. Scaringe said. “You can get it dirty, but it’s still a very thoughtful, intelligent design.”Both vehicles may end up competing directly with Tesla models. Tesla already offers an S.U.V., the Model X, and is working on a pickup truck and a smaller S.U.V. Rivian has said it aims to sell about 20,000 vehicles in 2021 and double that in 2022. Last year, Tesla sold about 245,000 cars.Analysts said Rivian’s success was by no means assured.“They still face all the hurdles,” said Karl Brauer, executive publisher at Cox Automotive. “They have to produce the vehicles. They have to deliver the vehicles. Tesla has been around longer, but it’s still struggling to set up a dealer network and is struggling with high-volume production.”Rivian has kept a low profile, especially compared with Tesla and its flamboyant chief executive, Elon Musk. Until recently, to keep its operations secret, Rivian did not display its name on its buildings. While Mr. Scaringe has a Twitter account, he has posted only 87 tweets — a small fraction of Mr. Musk’s nearly 7,000.And while Tesla and Mr. Musk regularly make headlines, relatively little is known about Mr. Scaringe, who is 36. He grew up near Melbourne, Fla.; studied at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute; and earned a doctorate in mechanical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.He then created a company, Mainstream Motors, in Florida, intending to produce an affordable sports car that could go 60 miles on a gallon of gas. In 2011, the company was renamed Rivian, and its focus shifted to electric vehicles.Rivian employs 600 people, with its main office in Plymouth, Mich., about 30 miles west of Detroit. In 2016, it bought a mothballed auto plant in Normal, Ill., previously owned by Mitsubishi Motors.Chris Koos, the mayor of Normal, where Rivian plans to produce its vehicles, described Mr. Scaringe as a “broad thinker” who seems immersed in operational details.“When you ask him a technical question, you can expect about a 10-minute answer,” Mr. Koos said.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated Amazon’s part in a new investment round in Rivian. The company is leading the $700 million investment, not investing $700 million itself, according to Rivian.Karen Weise contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, The National Enquirer is for sale, and Elon Musk must make nice with the S.E.C.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.You're a busy person, so here's your quick and breezy catch-up on the latest in tech and business news, plus what to know for the week ahead. Your Monday self will be better for it.APRIL 7-13Your ride is (almost) here, but how much is it worth? Uber’s widely anticipated initial public offering, on track for early May, is said to aim for a valuation of $90 billion to $100 billion. That’s significantly lower than the $120 billion that many investors had expected, although it would still be the largest I.P.O. since 2014. Why the falling numbers? For one thing, the ride-sharing company lost $1.8 billion last year, and its growth is slowing. Plus, everyone has been taking note of what happened after the recent I.P.O. of Uber’s smaller rival Lyft. Its shares have already dropped roughly 20 percent below their offering price. The National Enquirer, the checkout-line mainstay known for peddling headlines about aliens on the moon and, more recently, aiding President Trump’s 2016 candidacy, is for sale. The tabloid is led by David J. Pecker, a longtime friend of Mr. Trump’s, and there’s word of a surprising potential buyer: the billionaire Ron Burkle, a Democratic donor with ties to former President Bill Clinton. The publication came under scrutiny for helping Mr. Trump’s political rise by buying the rights to a story from a Playboy model who said she had an affair with him and then never publishing it — a tabloid practice known as catch-and-kill. The Enquirer is now under federal investigation for claims that it threatened Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, with “extortion and blackmail” after exposing details about his extramarital affair. Just what no one wanted: Six more months of Brexit drama. European Union leaders agreed on Wednesday to extend Britain’s withdrawal deadline — again — this time to Oct. 31. Now, British lawmakers will have more time to argue over their long-overdue departure plan, which they’ve already had three years to discuss. While they haggle, businesses will continue to plan for the worst until Brexit trade policies are settled, compromising the country’s economic growth. On the upside, Britain did not crash out of the bloc on Friday without a deal, which could have wreaked economic havoc. But is the extension just prolonging the inevitable? APRIL 14-20Thursday is the deadline for Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, and the Securities and Exchange Commission to work out their differences on Mr. Musk’s Twitter practices. A federal judge in New York has asked both parties to submit a joint letter with clear guidelines about Mr. Musk’s tweets — namely, when Mr. Musk must get approval from a Tesla lawyer before posting. The S.E.C. sought more oversight of Mr. Musk’s communications after he tweeted erroneous information about Tesla more than once, first about taking the company private and later about its production numbers. (Presumably, he will be allowed to keep tweeting about cheese-related flatulence and multicolored squirrels whenever he pleases, as he recently did.) A jury will get to decide whether Apple owes money to the chip manufacturer Qualcomm, which might sound dull if not for the cast of tech stars involved. Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, and Steve Mollenkopf, his counterpart at Qualcomm, are both expected to take the stand at the trial, which begins in San Diego this week. Top brass from other technology companies, like the manufacturing giant Foxconn, are also expected to testify. The showdown is a culmination of a two-year global fight between tech giants, with Qualcomm seeking back payment for chips used in iPhones and Apple disputing Qualcomm’s claims to certain technology. More big banks will release their first-quarter earnings this coming week, and the results may be stronger than expected if JPMorgan’s report on Friday was any indication. Analysts had lowered their projections for bank profits in recent months for a mix of reasons, including the slowing economy and the Federal Reserve’s changing stance on interest rates. Banks’ performances are often seen as a litmus test for overall economic health, and the latest numbers may offer clues to how much we should be worried about a recession — or whether we’re overly paranoid. Disney unveiled plans to take on Netflix with its own streaming service, which will cost $7 a month when it becomes available on Nov. 12. In other news, J. Crew is considering a spinoff of its smaller, fast-growing brand Madewell to raise some much-needed cash. Speaking of crunches, Boeing still has no timetable for getting its grounded 737 Max jets back in the air, and the costs of fixing the planes — and convincing regulators, airlines and passengers that they’re safe to fly — are starting to pile up.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - The U.S. Transportation Department on Wednesday issued a draft environmental assessment for a Washington, D.C. to Baltimore tunnel that would carry passengers between the cities at high speeds in autonomous electric vehicles, the first step in a joint federal-state review of the Elon Musk project.Musk's Boring Co has proposed a privately funded 35.3-mile ""loop project"" that would include twin underground tunnels transporting passengers at speeds of up to 150 miles per hour.The company says passengers would be able to travel from downtown Washington to Baltimore in as little as 15 minutes.Musk, who also leads electric vehicle maker Tesla Inc and rocket company SpaceX, is seeking to revolutionize transportation by digging tunnels, including one that would connect downtown Chicago and the city's main airport.The draft assessment is an ""early milestone in the environmental review and permitting process,"" the Transportation Department said, adding it will be open for public comment for 45 days. Then the Federal Highway Administration and Maryland Department of Transportation will review comments and decide if a formal environmental impact statement is necessary.Final governmental approvals will depend on the outcome of the review and officials noted ""operational safety issues will be addressed in future studies, as will the ultimate engineering and design details.""The tunnel route would largely follow the right-of-way under the Baltimore Washington Parkway and the proposed station terminals would be located on New York Avenue northwest of Washington's Union Station and in the Camden Yards area in downtown Baltimore.The loop project is separate from hyperloop proposals, which involve ultra-high speed, fixed intercity transportation systems in which passengers are transported in pressurized capsules that operate in sealed partial-vacuum tubes at 600 miles per hour or faster, the department said. Boring says the loop tunnels would be compatible with hyperloop requirements and the loop tunnels could eventually be part of the faster system.The Transportation Department said tunnel activity will take place at an average of 30 feet below ground and the draft review addresses noise or vibration impacts at surface level, which according to the proposal are expected to be ""minimal, subject to further design and engineering analysis.""Last year, Chicago selected Boring to build a $1 billion underground transit system to take people from Chicago’s downtown Loop district to O’Hare International Airport.The Chicago project's fate is up in the air and Boring has yet to sign a contract with the city to build the tunnels.Boring did not immediately comment Wednesday but has said the East Coast tunnel ""would serve as the central artery for a potential future transportation network which would hopefully be extended to New York.""Boring says it would take between 12 and 20 months to dig the tunnels and would include up to 70 ventilation shafts/emergency exits on private property adjacent to the alignment. (Reporting by David Shepardson; Editing by Steve Orlofsky)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — A SpaceX rocket booster that landed on an ocean platform after last week's launch has been damaged in rough seas.For the first time, all three first-stage boosters landed upright following Thursday's launch of the company's Falcon Heavy, the most powerful rocket in use. Both side boosters returned to Cape Canaveral, Florida, while the core booster landed on a platform hundreds of miles offshore.The company confirmed Tuesday that the unsecured core booster toppled onto the platform over the weekend, as waves reached 8 to 10 feet.SpaceX chief Elon Musk says the engines seem OK. There's no immediate word on how many of the booster pieces remain on board.Musk says custom devices to secure the booster weren't ready in time for this second flight of the Falcon Heavy.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - T. Rowe Price, once the second-largest investor in Tesla Inc after Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk, has shed most of its stake in the electric carmaker in a series of transactions over the last two quarters.Funds managed by T. Rowe Price Group Inc owned a 10.12 percent stake in Tesla as of September. It sold roughly half of that stake in the quarter ended December and 92 percent of its remaining stake in the following quarter.Tesla has been plagued with problems for the last several quarters, ranging from production hurdles for its Model 3 sedans to Musk's brush off with securities regulators.T. Rowe, which managed more than $1 trillion in assets, started investing in Tesla in 2015 and the electric carmaker said in 2016 it was among its top five investors. (Reporting by Akanksha Rana in Bengaluru; Editing by Anil D'Silva)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestBy Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Welcome to your quick and painless summary of tech and business news. You don’t need reminding that it’s the shortest weekend of the year; make the most of it.MARCH 3-9Facebook, the platform known for sharing your personal information with the world whether you like it or not, is going for a more discreet vibe these days. The company’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, wants to nudge users toward “private” messaging and away from blasting their networks with status updates, a trend he says is already underway. He likened his new vision, which will integrate other Facebook-owned platforms like Instagram and WhatsApp, to a “digital living room” where people can have intimate discussions secure from outsiders. (He emphasized the term “encrypted.”) It’s unclear how this pivot will affect Facebook’s business model, and critics have pointed out the obvious paradox of a company known for playing fast and loose with users’ data suddenly espousing privacy protection.Yet another sign that the country’s economy may be cooling: February’s disappointing jobs numbers. Only 20,000 new jobs were added, far less than the 175,000 that analysts had predicted. It’s the weakest report since September 2017, but on the upside, it still marks the 101st consecutive month of growth. Wall Street got good news this past week as regulators eased their oversight of the nation’s biggest banks. The policy shift is part of the Trump administration’s promise to call off the watchdogs put in place after the 2008 financial crisis, rules that the financial industry has criticized as hampering economic growth. While these rollbacks may help stoke markets, they could also lead to a less transparent financial system — and a repeat of past mistakes. Go back to enjoying your pasta: The Italian food impresario Mario Batali has formally exited his dining empire. More than a year after multiple women accused him of sexual harassment and assault, he “will no longer profit from the restaurants in any way, shape or form,” said Tanya Bastianich Manuali, who will run the remaining 16 establishments in Mr. Batali’s former portfolio. She and her brother, Mr. Batali’s erstwhile business partner Joe Bastianich, bought the disgraced chef’s shares in the Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group for an undisclosed sum. Mr. Batali will also hand over the keys to Eataly, the chain of Italian food emporiums. MARCH 10-16If you’ve been holding out for a Tesla that can fit your family and Elon Musk’s ego, the automaker will unveil its new crossover S.U.V., the Model Y, at the company’s Los Angeles design studio this week. Mr. Musk, the chief executive, said that the Model Y will be about 10 percent roomier than the Model 3 sedan, have slightly less battery range and come at a higher price. Tesla could certainly use the revenue boost. In its effort to sell the Model 3 for a long-promised $35,000, it’s had to lay off workers, close showrooms and cut other costs — moves that have battered its stock price. Wondering what the growing crowd of presidential candidates will be talking about this coming week, in addition to the country’s new record-high trade deficit? Well, President Trump is expected to deliver his budget proposal for 2020 this Monday, about a month late because of the government shutdown earlier this year. Lower tax revenue and increased government spending have driven up annual budget deficits, which now are expected to exceed $1 trillion starting in 2022, according to the Congressional Budget Office. But Mr. Trump is likely to play down those numbers and focus on spending cuts instead. It’s understandable if you’ve been ignoring the Brexit commotion; all that back-and-forth was getting tedious. But now is the time to start paying attention, as talks come down to the wire. Britain’s House of Commons will vote on the latest version of Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan this Tuesday. If it is rejected — as it probably will be — then Parliament will vote on whether to leave the European Union without a deal or to delay Britain’s departure beyond the original March 29 deadline. Either way, the path doesn’t look smooth, and the European Central Bank is bracing itself. On Thursday, it abruptly reversed course and revived its stimulus measures.Uber will not be held criminally liable for the death of a woman who was hit by a self-driving test car in Arizona last year, although its safety driver — who was sitting in the driver’s seat at the time of the accident — still could face charges. In other news, a new cosmetics deal has made Kylie Jenner, at 21 years old, the world’s youngest “self-made” billionaire (the “self-made” label is up for debate, but hey, the money’s real). Perhaps she’ll buy this Bugatti, which set a record last week as the world’s most expensive car at $19 million.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — The U.S. securities watchdog's request that a federal judge hold Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk in contempt over the billionaire entrepreneur's use of Twitter was ""reasonable,"" said a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission official on Monday.SEC Commissioner Robert Jackson, a Democrat, told reporters at a conference in Washington that the SEC was reasonable in suggesting greater oversight of Musk's communications, including the threat of new fines if he backslides. ""The idea (is) that we would have future oversight to prevent future problems from recurring,"" Jackson said.The SEC had asked U.S. District Judge Alison Nathan to hold Musk in contempt over a Feb. 19 tweet in which the agency said he had improperly posted material information about Tesla's vehicle production outlook without seeking approval from its lawyers.In a Friday order, the judge gave both sides until April 18 to reach a resolution. If they do not, the judge said she would decide whether to hold Musk in contempt. If he is held in contempt, the judge would allow discussions on possible sanctions. ""I understand those who are skeptical and who feel that it's innovative relief – to me it was important relief and I thought enforcement took very reasonable steps, both to the nature of the relief and our oversight of that relief,"" added Jackson of the judge's order. The SEC, which had sued Tesla, asked the company in September to consider removing Musk. The CEO agreed to step down as Tesla's chairman in an agreement that also required preapproval of Musk's written communications that could be material to the company, such as volumes of cars produced or other information likely to change the value of its securities. In a statement by Tesla on Thursday, Musk said ""the tweet in question was true, immaterial to shareholders, and in no way a violation of my agreement.""The SEC said the first of the Feb. 19 tweets conflicted with Tesla's Jan. 30 outlook, when it targeted annualized Model 3 production exceeding 500,000 as soon as the fourth quarter, and projected 360,000 to 400,000 vehicle deliveries this year. At the time the SEC also said Musk had violated their agreement by sending a tweet that had not been vetted by Tesla's lawyers and he should be held in contempt. It did not say what penalties it wanted imposed, raising the question of whether it would again seek his removal or propose less drastic measures. (Reporting by Suzanne Barlyn and Katanga Johnson; Editing by Richard Chang)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Tesla Inc said on Friday that four members of its eleven-member board would be leaving over the next two years, as the electric car company looks to streamline its board. Brad Buss, Antonio Gracias, Stephen Jurvetson, and Linda Johnson Rice will not be standing for re-election in the upcoming annual meetings of stockholders in 2019 and 2020, the company said https://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1318605/000156459019012123/tsla-8k_20190418.htm in a regulatory filing. The company said its directors reviewed the composition of the board ""focusing on a phased streamlining of the size of the Board to allow it to operate more nimbly and efficiently.""Tesla said the decision did not result from any disagreement between the company and the directors.Of the four members who would exit the board, Buss and Gracias were part of Tesla's disclosure controls committee, overseeing the implementation of the terms of the consent agreement between Tesla and the SEC. Buss was also the chief financial officer of solar panel installer SolarCity for two years before retiring in 2016. Tesla bought SolarCity that year. Gracias has been an independent director at Tesla since 2010. Last May, proxy adviser ISS recommended that investors vote against his election to the board and called him a non-independent director. Jurvetson, the co-founder of Silicon Valley venture capital firm Draper Fisher Jurvetson, is said to be on a leave of absence from Tesla's board since allegations of sexual harassment against him arose. Jurvetson has denied the allegations against him. (https://reut.rs/2mn57in)The proposed changes in the board come a couple of weeks after Elon Musk's position as the chief executive officer of Tesla was secured after a federal judge urged the billionaire to settle contempt allegations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission over his use of Twitter.Musk was sued by the SEC last year for tweeting that he had ""funding secured"" to take the company private. He settled the lawsuit, agreeing to step down as chairman and have the company's lawyers pre-approve written communications with material information about the company. But he was again accused of violating that settlement by sending a tweet about Tesla's production that had not been vetted by the company's attorneys. On Thursday, a federal judge ruled that Musk and the SEC would get another week to settle a dispute over Musk's use of Twitter. (Reporting by Nivedita Balu in Bengaluru; editing by Diane Craft)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersNEW YORK — David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital renewed criticism of Elon Musk and Tesla Inc, saying the electric car company appeared to be ""on the brink"" of failure again, according to a letter sent to clients of the hedge fund on Friday.The letter cited a lack of demand, ""desperate"" price cuts, layoffs, ""closing-and-then-not-closing"" stores, closing service centres, slashing capital expenditures, rushed product announcements and ""a new effort to distract investors from the demand problem with hyperbole over TSLA's autonomous driving capabilities."" ""We believe that right here, right now, the company appears to again be on the brink,"" the letter said. Greenlight is short Tesla stock, recently a profitable bet. Tesla's share price declined from $332.80 to $279.86 in the first quarter. On Friday, shares of Tesla were trading around $268 per share.Tesla did not immediately reply to a request for comment. Greenlight said its funds gained 11 percent over the first three months of 2019, slightly below the gain of the S&P 500 Index. Despite the gains so far this year, ""it continued to be a challenging environment for our investment style with growth stocks performing much better than value stocks,"" the letter said.""In the context of this headwind and a sizable short portfolio, we are pleased with the quarterly result,"" it added.Greenlight noted that last summer, Musk had promised Tesla would be profitable and cash flow positive in every quarter going forward. ""He repeated that forecast as recently as the end of January,"" Greenlight said.""That promise has failed to materialise. The question at hand is: in a few months will Musk be again bragging that he saved the company from the brink of failure, or will TSLA in fact fail this time?""Greenlight Capital and its founder Einhorn first rose to prominence for making a prescient call on Lehman Brothers’ accounting troubles before the firm’s collapse. Late last year, Greenlight compared Tesla to Lehman. In Greenlight's letter, Einhorn said the fund's biggest gainers during the first quarter included AerCap Holdings, Brighthouse Financial, Deutsche Pfandbriefbank, General Motors and Green Brick Partners.Einhorn said Brighthouse has been misunderstood because GAAP accounting requires that hedges get marked to market each quarter while liabilities are not. ""This creates a mismatch between how BHF's assets and liabilities are treated in response to market moves,"" Einhorn said. ""All else being equal, BHF benefits from rising equity markets and higher interest rates, as the economic gain from lower expected claims more than offsets the company's losses on its hedges."" (Reporting by Jennifer Ablan and Svea Herbst-Bayliss; Editing by Susan Thomas)Advertisement"
" As another Soyuz space rocket prepares to send a new batch of astronauts to the International Space Station, a photographer takes us inside the world’s oldest and largest spaceport.CreditCreditSupported byPhotographs by Maxim BabenkoText by Steve BellBAIKONUR, Kazakhstan — More than a half-century ago, the launch site here became the first place to send humans into space. It is still our main route to the heavens, at least for now.As these photos suggest, time has since put a wrinkle or two or three on the massive Baikonur Cosmodrome, some 1,300 miles southeast of Moscow.It was at Baikonur that the Soviets launched Sputnik in 1957, shocking America and beginning the space race in earnest. The United States worked furiously to catch up to, and eventually surpass, the Soviet program. In 1961, Yuri Gagarin left Baikonur for a single orbit of the Earth.Today, Russians, Americans and travelers from other nations team up on missions launched from the Baikonur site, described by Vladimir V. Putin six years ago as “physically aged.” Besides all the liftoffs, Baikonur serves as a tourist draw, offering a museum, tours and even an opportunity to take a zero gravity flight.[Sign up to get reminders for space and astronomy events on your calendar.]On Dec. 3, the crew of Soyuz MS-11 — with Anne McClain of the United States, Oleg Kononenko of Russia and David Saint-Jacques of Canada — took off for the International Space Station. On Thursday, two more Americans and a Russian will travel there. One of the Americans on that trip, Christina Koch, plans to join Ms. McClain in the first all-female spacewalk.Since the final space shuttle flight in 2011, American astronauts have had to hitch rides on Russian ships to get to the space station. NASA’s current strategy is to use private companies — Elon Musk’s SpaceX and Boeing — to carry Americans into space. Mr. Musk, fresh from a successful uncrewed launch this month, hopes this year to end Baikonur’s status as the exclusive provider of human travel to the space station.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - T. Rowe Price funds slashed Tesla Inc holdings in the first quarter, data showed on Wednesday, as the institutional investor continued to cut its positions in the electric vehicle maker. The firm, which has been one of the largest investors in the Silicon Valley company, sold off 92 percent of its prior holdings in the company during the quarter, Refinitiv data showed. That drop represented the funds for which Refinitiv has data, which may not include all T. Rowe Price funds, which are managed by T. Rowe Price Group Inc.Neither Tesla nor T. Rowe Price were immediately available to comment after normal business hours. The data showed sales between the end of last year and March 31 that ranged from 25 percent of holdings in the T. Rowe Price Global Growth Stock Fund to 100 percent of holdings at the Growth Stock Fund, which had held 2.1 million shares.In total, six funds cut their Tesla holdings by 100 percent. T. Rowe Price's next-largest Tesla holding, within the Blue Chip Growth Fund, with 1.8 million shares, was cut by 82 percent.Most recently, T. Rowe Price reduced its stake in the fourth-quarter of last year by roughly half, ending December with a 5.2 percent stake in the company overall versus 10.12 percent in September. Shares of Tesla fell 16 percent during the first quarter, a difficult period for the company marked by a sharp drop in deliveries of its Model 3, and Chief Executive Elon Musk's public battle in the courts with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (Reporting by Alexandria Sage in San Francisco and Trevor Hunnicutt in New York; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — SpaceX launched its second supersized rocket and for the first time landed all three boosters Thursday, a year after sending up a sports car on the initial test flight.The new and improved Falcon Heavy thundered into the early evening sky with a communication satellite called Arabsat, the rocket's first paying customer. The Falcon Heavy is the most powerful rocket in use today, with 27 engines firing at liftoff — nine per booster.Eight minutes after liftoff, SpaceX landed two of the first-stage boosters back at Cape Canaveral, side by side, just like it did for the rocket's debut last year. The core booster landed two minutes later on an ocean platform hundreds of miles offshore. That's the only part of the first mission that missed.""What an amazing day,"" a SpaceX flight commentator exclaimed. ""Three for three boosters today on Falcon Heavy, what an amazing accomplishment.""The Falcon Heavy soared from NASA's Kennedy Space Center, using the same pad that shot Apollo astronauts to the moon a half-century ago and later space shuttle crews.Nearby beaches and other prime viewing spots were packed with tourists and locals eager to catch not just the launch but the rare and dramatic return of twin boosters, accompanied by sonic booms. The roads were also jammed for Wednesday night's launch attempt, which was scuttled by high wind.Because this was an upgraded version of the rocket with unproven changes, SpaceX chief Elon Musk cautioned in advance things might go wrong. But everything went exceedingly well and the satellite ended up in the proper orbit. SpaceX employees at company headquarters in Southern California cheered every launch milestone and especially the three touchdowns.""The Falcons have landed,"" Musk said in a tweet that included pictures of all three boosters.NASA offered swift congratulations. ""From our iconic launch pads at @NASAKennedy, we will continue to support the growing commercial space economy,"" NASA tweeted. Musk replied with three red hearts.Musk put his own Tesla convertible on last year's demo. The red Roadster — with a mannequin, dubbed Starman, likely still at the wheel — remains in a solar orbit stretching just past Mars.The Roadster is thought to be on the other side of the sun from us right now, about three-quarters of the way around its first solar orbit, said Jon Giorgini, a senior analyst at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.A couple dozen ground telescopes kept tabs on the car during its first several days in space, but it gradually faded from view as it headed out toward the orbit of Mars, Giorgini noted.The Roadster could still look much the same as it did for the Feb. 6, 2018, launch, just not as shiny with perhaps some chips and flakes from the extreme temperature swings, according to Giorgini. It will take decades if not centuries for solar radiation to cause it to decompose, he said.SpaceX plans to launch its next Falcon Heavy later this year on a mission for the U.S. Air Force. The boosters for that flight may be recycled from this one.NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine last month suggested possibly using a Falcon Heavy — and another company's big rocket — to get the space agency's Orion capsule around the moon, minus a crew, in 2020. But the preferred method remains NASA's own Space Launch System mega rocket — if it can be ready by then.Bridenstine said everything is on the space table as NASA strives to meet the White House's goal of landing astronauts back on the moon by 2024.NASA's Saturn V rockets, used for the Apollo moon shots, are the all-time launch leaders so far in size and might.SpaceX typically launches Falcon 9 rockets. The Falcon Heavy is essentially three of those single rockets strapped together.Until SpaceX came along, boosters were discarded in the ocean after satellite launches. The company is intent on driving down launch costs by recycling rocket parts.___The Associated Press Health and Science Department receives support from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute's Department of Science Education. The AP is solely responsible for all contentAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, Gap breaks up with Old Navy, and artwork that can think for itself.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Welcome to a quick catch-up on this week’s news in business and tech, so you can sound smart and well-read on Monday even if you spent most of your weekend scrolling through strangely cute pictures of vermin. Here’s your cheat sheet. FEB. 24-MarCH 2If you didn’t spend your Wednesday glued to the riveting testimony of Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, you’ve no doubt heard the more salacious details by now (hush money to a porn star, etc.). But Mr. Cohen also made new accusations about his former client’s business practices. He said that Mr. Trump inflated his net worth to qualify for bigger bank loans, misrepresented the value of properties to avoid taxes and exaggerated the value of his assets when insuring them — in other words, committed fraud. Those revelations could pose problems not only for Mr. Trump, but also for his inner circle, including his daughter Ivanka Trump and son Donald Trump Jr. Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, went rogue on Twitter — again. The Securities and Exchange Commission wants to hold him in contempt of court for tweeting about production forecasts last week, which violated the terms of a settlement he made with the agency last year. (The S.E.C. sued him over misleading Twitter posts about taking his company private, and his legal team is now supposed to review any tweets with material information before he sends them — which didn’t happen, in this case.) In related news, Tesla is finally taking orders for the long-promised $35,000 version of its Model 3 sedan. But it had to cut significant costs in other areas — like in its work force — to do so. Hopefully, they can still be friends. Gap Inc. said on Thursday that it would split into two companies, one that’s just Old Navy — the star moneymaker — and the other containing Gap, Banana Republic, and the newer labels Athleta and Hill City. Gap the brand has been dragging down Gap the company for quite some time (its sales fell 5 percent last year) while Old Navy has grown like gangbusters and can now proceed unfettered. So what’s Gap doing wrong? Analysts say it failed to hold onto the baby boomers who loved its turtlenecks and jeans in the ’90s, while millennials are turning to cheaper options — and Old Navy has the better deals. MARCH 3-9American farmers are bearing the brunt of the China trade war, defaulting on their loans at the highest rate in nine years. But Mr. Trump has said he’s anticipating “some very big news over the next week or two” about a deal. Last Friday was supposed to be the hard deadline for an agreement between the two governments, or else Mr. Trump would raise tariffs on Beijing to more punitive levels. But the administration backed off its big-stick posturing last week, dropping the deadline in light of “significant progress” in negotiations. Mr. Trump’s advisers were more cautiously optimistic about striking a deal, while many members of Congress remain skeptical of its terms. What better name for a new spacecraft than “Crew Dragon”? NASA and SpaceX are sending the capsule on its maiden voyage to the International Space Station this week. No humans are aboard this test flight, but ultimately the Crew Dragon is intended to carry astronauts — making it the first passenger-friendly ship that NASA has launched since the Atlantis space shuttle completed its final mission in 2011. Since then, NASA has had to buy rides to the International Space Station aboard Russian spacecraft, an arrangement that the Crew Dragon is expected to end. It looks weird, and it should — it’s artwork “curated” by artificial intelligence, and it will be the first of its medium sold at auction this Wednesday at Sotheby’s. Created by the artist Mario Klingemann, the installation consists of two framed screens that use neural networks to “think” for themselves, shifting into an endless stream of (rather creepy) portraits that the machine “imagines” in real time. No two faces that it depicts are alike, so every viewer gets a unique show. The piece is expected to fetch up to $52,000 — and perhaps whet the art market’s appetite for more of its kind. HBO’s chief executive, Richard Plepler, who ushered in a heyday for cable with shows like “The Sopranos” and “Sex and the City,” abruptly stepped down after 27 years at the network. Millions of people in Uganda have quit the internet after the government imposed taxes on the use of social media platforms like Facebook, WhatsApp and Twitter. Walmart is doing away with its greeters — those people in blue vests who stand at the store entrance and seem way too happy to see you — which may put many employees with disabilities out of a job. And a new report showed that economic growth in the United States is not as peppy as some people (including Mr. Trump) predicted, as the effects of tax cuts and other economic stimuli fade.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersBANGKOK — Two Australian cave divers who were instrumental in the rescue last year of 12 Thai boys and their soccer coach from a flooded cave received on Friday a royal honor from King Maha Vajiralongkorn in a ceremony in Bangkok.The “Wild Boars” soccer team, aged between 11 and 16, and their 25-year-old coach became trapped on June 23 while exploring the cave complex in the northern province of Chiang Rai when a rainy season downpour flooded the tunnels.A 17-day effort to rescue them gripped the world with experts from various countries volunteering to help.Richard Harris and Craig Challen were members of the main rescue team, made up of 13 foreign divers and five Thai navy divers, that brought the boys and their coach out to safety.They received the Most Admirable Order of the Direkgunabhorn at Bangkok's Government House before meeting Prime Minister Prayuth Chan-ocha in their first trip back to Thailand since the rescue.They will travel to Chiang Rai and return to the Tham Luang cave on Monday to meet the boys and their coach.""That's really exciting for us to go and see them and make sure they're well and see how they're doing after the rescue,"" Harris said.Harris, a physician specializing in anesthesia, was responsible for sedating the boys before they were brought out one-by-one on a rescue stretcher through flooded tunnels.The pair were in January named Australians of the Year, one of Australia's highest honors.King Vajiralongkorn has conferred various honors on 187 people in connection with the rescue, 113 of them foreigners including Tesla Inc Chief Executive Elon Musk, who were involved in the effort, according to the Royal Gazette in March.A former Thai navy diver died during the rescue.  (Reporting by Panu Wongcha-um and Panarat Thepgumpanat; Editing by Robert Birsel)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe Crew Dragon capsule carried no crew, but it sets up a near future with astronauts traveling to orbit from the United States again.By Kenneth ChangThe first American spacecraft capable of carrying astronauts since the retirement of the space shuttles launched early Saturday. A successful mission could put NASA and the United States on the cusp of a renewed era of human spaceflight.There were no people on this demonstration flight, a SpaceX vehicle called Crew Dragon. As lightning sparked in distant skies, the spacecraft lifted off at the appointed time, 2:49 a.m. Eastern Time, from NASA’s Kennedy Space Flight Center in Florida. Within 10 minutes the capsule was in orbit, headed toward a Sunday morning rendezvous with the International Space Station.LIFTOFF! The next big leap in a new chapter of U.S. human spaceflight  systems has left the pad. @SpaceX’s #CrewDragon demo flight will be the 1st  commercially-built & operated American spacecraft designed for humans to dock at the @Space_Station. Watch: https://t.co/Fm5NQSfAXJ pic.twitter.com/YoiOf67kQL“Tonight was a big night for the United States of America, a great night for NASA,” Jim Bridenstine, the NASA administrator, said during a news conference after the launch.The launch was also an important step for the goals of Elon Musk, who founded SpaceX in 2002 and who says the objective of the company is to send people to space and eventually Mars. “It's been 17 years to get to this point,” said Mr. Musk. He described himself as emotionally exhausted. “But it worked,” Mr. Musk said of Crew Dragon. “So far.”[Sign up to get reminders for space and astronomy events on your calendar.]To date, the company has sent into space only satellites and cargo (and one Tesla sports car). “We still haven't launched anyone yet, but hopefully, we will later this year,” Mr. Musk said. “So that would definitely be a culmination of a long dream for a lot of people, me and a lot of people at SpaceX.”For the past eight years, NASA has been paying for rides on Russian spacecraft to get its astronauts to and from the International Space Station. Instead of developing and operating its own replacement for the space shuttles, NASA has instead turned to private companies to provide that service. In 2014, the space agency awarded two contracts, to SpaceX and to Boeing.The mission that launched Saturday, known as Demo-1, is an end-to-end test of the spacecraft from launch to docking at the International Space Station to re-entering over the United States and splashing down in the Atlantic Ocean.The capsule is to arrive at the space station on Sunday, about 27 hours after launch. Unlike earlier SpaceX missions that took cargo to the space station, which approached from below and was then grabbed by the station’s robotic arm, the Crew Dragon capsule will approach from the front and autonomously dock.After five days at the station, it is scheduled to leave on March 8.Mr. Musk said the most critical portions of the mission are the docking and the re-entry. The Crew Dragon’s top half has a more complex shape compared with an earlier version of SpaceX’s capsule that only carries cargo. That could cause it to tumble in the atmosphere.“I think it’s unlikely,” Mr. Musk said. “We’ve run simulations a thousand times. But this is a possibility.”The capsule can seat up to seven astronauts, although the early flights will not fill to capacity. For this demonstration flight, one of the four seats is occupied with a sort of artificial person — what NASA calls an A.T.D. or “anthropomorphic test device” — which is wearing a SpaceX spacesuit. The device includes sensors to measure forces and accelerations that a person would experience on the trip.The SpaceX engineers named it Ripley, after the heroine in the Alien movies played by Sigourney Weaver. The Ripley dummy was accompanied by a plush globe intended to signal when the capsule’s occupants became weightless. Video footage in a tweet by Mr. Musk showed the toy lifting from its seat during orbit.It is also carrying 400 pounds of cargo as well as inserts that simulate the mass of a more completely-filled capsule. Engineers on the ground will use information from the flight to understand how the spacecraft responds to being filled.NASA officials say that they expect that not everything will work perfectly; the purpose of the demonstration flight is to identify potential problems, and fix them, before putting people aboard.SpaceX has another high-stakes uncrewed test scheduled for June. The same capsule will again launch on top of a Falcon 9 rocket, but the flight will simulate a malfunction in the rocket high in the atmosphere. The escape system is to then propel the capsule to safety.If that test succeeds, then perhaps as soon as July, two NASA astronauts, Robert L. Behnken and Douglas G. Hurley, are to make a demonstration flight to the space station. “Seeing a success like this definitely gives us a lot of confidence in the future,” Mr. Behnken said at the news conference. Operational missions carrying four astronauts would then follow.The first crewless test flight of Boeing’s capsule, Starliner, could occur as soon as next month and a first crewed flight could also take off this year.However, after years of delays, the schedules for Boeing and SpaceX could still slip further if additional technical issues arise. NASA is considering buying more Russian Soyuz seats should crewed flights not occur this year.Kenneth Chang has been at The Times since 2000, writing about physics, geology, chemistry, and the planets. Before becoming a science writer, he was a graduate student whose research involved the control of chaos.  @kchangnyt Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Virgin Galactic’s first test passenger received her commercial astronaut wings from the U.S. aviation regulator on Tuesday after flying on the company’s rocket plane to evaluate the customer experience in February.Virgin Galactic’s chief astronaut instructor, Beth Moses, who is a former NASA engineer, became the first woman to fly to space on a commercial vehicle when she joined pilots David Mackay and Mike Masucci on SpaceShipTwo VSS Unity.The wings were presented to the three-person crew at the 35th Space Symposium in Colorado by the Federal Aviation Administration's associate administrator for commercial space, Wayne Monteith. “Commercial human space flight is now a reality,” he said.The February test flight nudged Richard Branson’s space travel company closer to delivering suborbital flights for the more than 600 people who have paid Virgin Galactic about $80 million (£61 million) in deposits. Branson has said he hopes to be the first passenger on a commercial flight in 2019.The 90-minute flight, during which passengers will be able to experience a few minutes of weightlessness and see the Earth’s curvature, costs $250,000 – a price that the company said will increase before it falls.Jeff Bezos’ Blue Origin and Elon Musk’s SpaceX are also in the space tourism race. Blue Origin has launched its New Shepard rocket to space, but its trips have not yet carried humans. SpaceX last year named Japanese billionaire Yusaku Maezawa as its first passenger on a voyage around the moon, tentatively scheduled for 2023. Moses, who as a NASA engineer worked on the assembly of the International Space Station, is designing a three-day training program for Virgin Galactic’s future space tourists.“I gleaned a lot of firsthand information that we can roll into the design and then also into the training,” she said on her return to earth in Mojave, California, in February.The passengers, some of whom have been signed up since 2004, will train in a mock-up cabin at New Mexico’s Spaceport America before their flights.Moses told Reuters she aims for customers to arrive in space “not wondering what noise they just heard or being surprised by the G they just felt.”Virgin Galactic’s Branson will also receive the annual Space Achievement Award at the symposium in recognition of the company’s two crewed test flights, the first from U.S. soil since the final Space Shuttle mission in 2011. (Reporting by Elizabeth Culliford; Editing by Leslie Adler)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLOS ANGELES — The world's largest aircraft took off over the Mojave Desert in California on Saturday, the first flight for the carbon-composite plane built by Stratolaunch Systems Corp, started by late Microsoft co-founder Paul Allen, as the company enters the lucrative private space market. The white airplane called Roc, which has a wingspan the length of an American football field and is powered by six engines on a twin fuselage, took to the air shortly before 7 a.m. Pacific time (1400 GMT) and stayed aloft for more than two hours before landing safely back at the Mojave Air and Space Port as a crowd of hundreds of people cheered.""What a fantastic first flight,"" Stratolaunch Chief Executive Officer Jean Floyd said in a statement posted to the company's website. ""Today’s flight furthers our mission to provide a flexible alternative to ground launched systems, Floyd said. ""We are incredibly proud of the Stratolaunch team, today’s flight crew, our partners at Northrup Grumman’s Scaled Composites and the Mojave Air and Space Port.""The plane is designed to drop rockets and other space vehicles weighing up to 500,000 pounds at an altitude of 35,000 feet and has been billed by the company as making satellite deployment as ""easy as booking an airline flight.""Saturday's flight, which saw the plane reach a maximum speed of 189 miles per hour and altitudes of 17,000 feet, was meant to test its performance and handling qualities, according to Stratolaunch. Allen, who co-founded Microsoft with Bill Gates in 1975, announced in 2011 that he had formed the privately funded Stratolaunch.The company seeks to cash in on higher demand in coming years for vessels that can put satellites in orbit, competing in the United States with other space entrepreneurs and industry stalwarts such as Elon Musk’s SpaceX and United Launch Alliance - a partnership between Boeing and Lockheed Martin. Stratolaunch has said that it intends to launch its first rockets from the Roc in 2020 at the earliest. Allen died in October 2018 while suffering from non-Hodgkins' lymphoma, just months after the plane's development was unveiled. ""We all know Paul would have been proud to witness today’s historic achievement,"" said Jody Allen, Chair of Vulcan Inc and Trustee of the Paul G. Allen Trust. ""The aircraft is a remarkable engineering achievement and we congratulate everyone involved."" (Reporting by Dan Whitcomb; editing by Grant McCool)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Virgin Galactic’s first test passenger received her commercial astronaut wings from the U.S. aviation regulator on Tuesday after flying on the company’s rocket plane to evaluate the customer experience in February.Virgin Galactic’s chief astronaut instructor, Beth Moses, who is a former NASA engineer, became the first woman to fly to space on a commercial vehicle when she joined pilots David Mackay and Mike Masucci on SpaceShipTwo VSS Unity.The wings were presented to the three-person crew at the 35th Space Symposium in Colorado by the Federal Aviation Administration's associate administrator for commercial space, Wayne Monteith. “Commercial human space flight is now a reality,” he said.The February test flight nudged Richard Branson’s space travel company closer to delivering suborbital flights for the more than 600 people who have paid Virgin Galactic about $80 million in deposits. Branson has said he hopes to be the first passenger on a commercial flight in 2019.The 90-minute flight, during which passengers will be able to experience a few minutes of weightlessness and see the Earth’s curvature, costs $250,000 – a price that the company said will increase before it falls.Jeff Bezos’ Blue Origin and Elon Musk’s SpaceX are also in the space tourism race. Blue Origin has launched its New Shepard rocket to space, but its trips have not yet carried humans. SpaceX last year named Japanese billionaire Yusaku Maezawa as its first passenger on a voyage around the moon, tentatively scheduled for 2023. Moses, who as a NASA engineer worked on the assembly of the International Space Station, is designing a three-day training program for Virgin Galactic’s future space tourists.“I gleaned a lot of firsthand information that we can roll into the design and then also into the training,” she said on her return to earth in Mojave, California, in February.The passengers, some of whom have been signed up since 2004, will train in a mock-up cabin at New Mexico’s Spaceport America before their flights.Moses told Reuters she aims for customers to arrive in space “not wondering what noise they just heard or being surprised by the G they just felt.”Virgin Galactic’s Branson will also receive the annual Space Achievement Award at the symposium in recognition of the company’s two crewed test flights, the first from U.S. soil since the final Space Shuttle mission in 2011. (Reporting by Elizabeth Culliford; Editing by Leslie Adler)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated Press___IPO mania: Zoom zooms, Pinterest pins down Wall StreetSAN FRANCISCO (AP) — There's some tech jubilance in the air on Wall Street and in Silicon Valley as a pair of newly public companies — Zoom and Pinterest — are seeing their stocks soar in their market debuts. Zoom Video Communications soared 72% while Pinterest jumped 28% when they started trading. The strong initial performances might reassure investors with jittery nerves following Lyft's disappointing start less than a month ago.___National Enquirer being sold to former newsstand mogulNEW YORK (AP) — The National Enquirer is being sold to the former head of the airport newsstand company Hudson News. Tabloid owner American Media say it is selling the supermarket weekly to James Cohen, the former head of newsstand retailer Hudson News. The deal comes after a rocky year for the tabloid in which it was caught up in a federal probe of illegal campaign contributions to Donald Trump's presidential campaign in 2016.___Commission: New NAFTA would deliver modest economic gainsWASHINGTON (AP) — President Donald Trump's new North America trade agreement would give the U.S. economy only a modest boost, an independent federal agency reports. The International Trade Commission says that Trump's U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement would lift the U.S. economy by 0.35%, or $68.2 billion, and add 176,000 jobs six years after it takes effect.___Musk, SEC get another week to reach deal in contempt caseNEW YORK (AP) — Lawyers for Tesla CEO Elon Musk and U.S. securities regulators are getting another week to negotiate a deal to keep Musk from being found in contempt of court. Both sides say in a letter filed Thursday with a federal court in New York that they talked for over an hour this week and are continuing to discuss an agreement. District Judge Alison Nathan granted the request to talk until April 25.___US retail sales soared 1.6% in MarchWASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. retail sales surged in March at the fastest pace since late 2017, as spending on autos, gasoline, furniture and clothing jumped. The Commerce Department says that sales increased a seasonally adjusted 1.6% from February, the strongest increase since September 2017. The gains mark a sharp rebound from a lackluster period of sales dating back to December. It's a sign that the healthy job market has likely made consumers more eager to spend in ways that boost overall economic growth.___Americans' energy use surges despite climate change concernWASHINGTON (AP) — Americans are burning a record amount of energy, led by a boom in natural gas. The U.S. Energy Information Administration says U.S. use of fuels jumped last year by the biggest amount in eight years. That's despite increasingly urgent warnings from scientists on fossil fuel emissions and climate change.___New Mexico panel surprises Facebook with $39M utility billALBUQUERQUE, N.M. (AP) — A powerful regulatory authority in New Mexico is requiring the state's largest utility to bill Facebook $39 million for a new transmission line construction. The Albuquerque Journal reports the Public Regulation Commission's Tuesday orders Public Service Company of New Mexico to charge Facebook for nearly half the cost of the $85 million transmission project for its New Mexico data center that opened this year. Facebook says the ruling could affect its long-term operations in the state.___Dubai arena is latest project unveiled despite weaker growthDUBAI, United Arab Emirates (AP) — Dubai gave an early look this week into its latest megaproject, an arena in the heart of a super luxe shopping and dining destination. Projects like it represent Dubai's ambitions for the future, but the sheer scale of the developments are fueling concerns of an oversupply in the market amid an economic slowdown.___Rabbis: 'Not kosher' to buy at grocery store during strikeBOSTON (AP) — New England rabbis are advising their congregations not to cross picket lines to get their Passover food at Stop & Shop supermarkets, which have deep roots in the local Jewish community. One Boston rabbi said it's ""not kosher"" to purchase ""products of oppressed labor."" More than 30,000 Stop & Shop workers walked off the job over what they say is an unfair contract offer, a claim the company disputes. A grocery analyst said the chain has the highest sales of kosher products among local stores.___US stocks cap holiday shortened week with modest gainsNEW YORK (AP) — The major U.S. stock indexes capped a holiday shortened week with slight gains Thursday, reversing some of the modest losses from a day earlier. The marginal upward move was not enough to keep the benchmark S&P 500 index from snapping a string of three straight weekly gains. Industrial stocks paved the way higher as traders welcomed solid earnings, offsetting losses by financial and energy stocks. Pinterest and Zoom Video Communications soared on their first day of trading.___The S&P 500 gained 4.58 points, or 0.2%, to 2,905.03. The Dow Jones Industrial Average rose 110 points, or 0.4%, to 26,559.54. The Nasdaq composite inched 1.98 points higher, or less than 0.1%, to 7,998.06. The Russell 2000 index of small-cap dropped 1.85 points, or 0.1%, to 1,565.75.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Zach WichterGeneral Motors is moving to widen its lineup of electric cars, and adding jobs in the process.The automaker said Friday that it would begin producing a new electric vehicle as part of its Chevrolet lineup, resulting in the addition of 400 jobs at its plant in Orion Township, Mich.The vehicle will share some characteristics with the all-electric Chevrolet Bolt EV, a small wagon that is already produced at the Orion factory, the company said in a statement. The addition of the vehicle will be accompanied by an investment in the plant of about $300 million. The company did not offer any other details about the new vehicle.G.M. has said since 2017 that it planned to substantially expand its lineup of all-electric cars. The push comes as other carmakers, including Hyundai and Audi, prepare to unveil new plug-in hybrids and fully electric models in a bet that car owners are ready to switch from gasoline-powered vehicles.“It’s an ongoing story of just trying to get realigned with where they see the business going in the future,” said Jeff Windau, an equity analyst at Edward Jones. “This is a capital-intensive business, and it takes time for the investments to be made and for the products to start being manufactured.”In an appearance on CNBC, G.M.’s chief executive, Mary T. Barra, said it would take one or two years for the new vehicle to reach the market.Competition in the electric-vehicle market is increasing. Ford announced this week that it would invest $900 million in Michigan to increase production of autonomous and electric cars in the coming years.Both G.M. and Ford seem to be trying to chip away at Tesla’s hold on the electric vehicle market. Even as Elon Musk’s company expands its fleet, its sales seem to be slowing. A federal tax credit for electric vehicles was recently reduced for Tesla buyers after the company reached a sales threshold, but customers buying electric vehicles from other automakers still qualify for the higher reimbursement.G.M. announced its new vehicle several days after President Trump criticized the automaker on Twitter over its decision to end production at a factory in Lordstown, Ohio. The plant is one of five in North America that the company said in November it would idle as part of a broader effort to cut costs.G.M. said Friday that it had around 2,700 job openings at its factories and that it was trying to fill the vacancies with employees affected by the shutdowns at Lordstown and elsewhere. The company said 1,100 employees from idled plants had already been placed at other factories.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.) Capitalism helped Ray Dalio build his investment empire. But in a lengthy LinkedIn post, the Bridgewater Associates founder says that it isn’t working anymore.• Mr. Dalio writes that he has seen capitalism “evolve in a way that it is not working well for the majority of Americans because it’s producing self-reinforcing spirals up for the haves and down for the have-nots.”• “Disparity in wealth, especially when accompanied by disparity in values, leads to increasing conflict and, in the government, that manifests itself in the form of populism of the left and populism of the right and often in revolutions of one sort or another.”• “The problem is that capitalists typically don’t know how to divide the pie well and socialists typically don’t know how to grow it well.”• “We are now seeing conflicts between populists of the left and populists of the right increasing around the world in much the same way as they did in the 1930s when the income and wealth gaps were comparably large.”• “It doesn’t take a genius to know that when a system is producing outcomes that are so inconsistent with its goals, it needs to be reformed.”Stay tuned: Mr. Dalio says that he’ll offer his solutions in another essay.A federal judge gave Elon Musk and the S.E.C. two weeks to resolve a dispute about whether Mr. Musk violated a settlement he reached with the commission, Matthew Goldstein of the NYT reports.Mr. Musk’s tweeting is at the heart of the skirmish. The S.E.C. says that a tweet about Tesla production numbers violated the settlement, in which he promised to get approval from a Tesla lawyer before publishing any Twitter posts that include potentially market-sensitive information.His lawyers insist that the tweet didn’t contain material information. One of them said yesterday that the S.E.C.’s policy on what needs to be vetted was “murky.” Judge Alison Nathan of Federal District Court in Manhattan wondered if there was a “lack of clarity” and whether the settlement should be modified or struck down.“Take a deep breath,” Judge Nathan told both sides. She added that they should put on “their reasonableness pants” to find common ground.This is “something of a victory for Mr. Musk, who could have been fined if he was found to be in contempt,” Mr. Goldstein writes. But Judge Nathan told Mr. Musk that, regardless of how powerful a person he is, a “court order is not optional.”More: Tesla shares fell after it reported delivering fewer vehicles than expected in the first quarter. And the automaker’s electric vehicle competition appears to be catching up.Jeff and MacKenzie Bezos said yesterday that they had finalized their divorce — and she will keep a big chunk of the Amazon empire.Mr. Bezos will keep 75 percent of the couple’s Amazon stock — which means he will hold about 12 percent of the company’s shares — as well as their family’s ownership interests in the WaPo and the Blue Origin space exploration company. That’s enough to keep his title as the world’s richest man.More important for him, he’ll keep voting control of Ms. Bezos’s shares. Even if she sells them, the recipient has to agree to hand over voting rights to Mr. Bezos.Ms. Bezos could have been entitled to half of the couple’s holdings under Washington State law, according to legal experts. It’s not clear what other compensation she is receiving from the split.But her holdings are valued at about $36 billion, making her one of the wealthiest women in the world. In her first-ever tweet, Ms. Bezos wrote, “Excited about my own plans. Grateful for the past as I look forward to what comes next.”Initial findings from an investigation into the Ethiopian Airlines crash last month suggest that Boeing didn’t give pilots enough guidance on new anti-stall software in the 737 Max 8.The Ethiopian Airlines pilots followed Boeing’s instructions when the anti-stall system kicked in, the report suggests. They then shut down the software and tried to retake control — but failed to do so. Four minutes later, the plane crashed.The system appeared to have forced the plane’s nose down several times in less than three minutes. It “left the pilot with no ability to gain control of the aircraft if it went to the full limit,” Dennis Tajer, a spokesman for American Airlines’s pilots union, told the NYT. “It’s our responsibility to eliminate this risk,” Dennis Muilenburg, Boeing’s C.E.O., said yesterday. “We own it, and we know how to do it.” Boeing has found a second software flaw in the 737 Max 8, separate from the anti-stall feature. The FT reports that this was the reason for a delay in rolling out software fixes for the plane.President Trump reportedly hoped to announce a final trade agreement between the U.S. and China yesterday. But he stopped short of that, Anna Swanson of the NYT reports, instead saying that it may take at least four more weeks to secure an “epic” trade deal.• “The United States and China continue to haggle over some remaining issues, including how many of the American tariffs on Chinese goods will be removed, and when.”• “In remarks at the White House, Mr. Trump said that the deal was ‘very complete’ and that the two sides had ‘agreed to far more than we have left to agree to.’ ”• “I think I can say some of the toughest things have been agreed to,” Mr. Trump added.Yet no matter what, Mr. Trump can already claim a trade victory. “Spurred by tariffs and trade tensions, global companies are beginning to shift their supply chains away from China, just as some Trump administration officials had wanted,” Keith Bradsher of the NYT writes.Herman Cain, the former C.E.O. of the Godfather’s Pizza chain and a presidential hopeful in 2012, may soon become President Trump’s next pick as a Fed governor.Mr. Cain is perhaps best remembered for his 2012 run for president, when he proposed an unorthodox “9-9-9” economic plan: a flat 9 percent tax rate, 9 percent business tax and 9 percent national sales tax.But Mr. Trump wants him on the Fed, calling him “a truly outstanding individual.” His nomination is dependent on the White House vetting process.Mr. Trump’s pick comes as the president has soured on the Fed. The president has told associates that selecting Jay Powell as the Fed’s chairman was a mistake, because of his insistence on raising interest rates.But the president’s Fed choices are drawing brickbats. Like Stephen Moore, the economics commentator whom Mr. Trump has already nominated for a place on the Fed board, Mr. Cain doesn’t have what critics say are the requisite qualifications.Critics worry that Mr. Trump is politicizing the Fed, which is meant to be apolitical. The possible nominations of Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain have “the potential to undermine the credibility of monetary policy,” Sarah Bloom Raskin, a Fed governor under President Barack Obama, told the NYT.JPMorgan Chase released its annual report to investors yesterday, and it included a long letter from Jamie Dimon about the bank’s role in shaping America.The biggest problems facing the U.S., according to Mr. Dimon, include education, immigration, health care costs, cyberattacks and “excessive regulation.”Capitalism is under pressure, but it’s better than socialism, he argues. “Socialism inevitably produces stagnation, corruption and often worse,” Mr. Dimon writes. But the JPMorgan chief also distinguishes social democrats, which some Democrats identify as, from true socialists.C.E.O.s and companies should be more active in public life, Mr. Dimon writes, “particularly when they or their companies can uniquely help design policies that are good for America.”To respond, JPMorgan plans to strengthen its public policy teams “to take our advocacy and ideas to the next level,” he writes.More: Jamie Dimon reportedly spent much of last year considering a run for president — but decided there was no way a Wall Street C.E.O. could win.Rudy Giuliani, who was President Trump’s personal lawyer during the special counsel’s investigation into Russian interference in the U.S. election, is a very busy man, according to Stephanie Baker of Bloomberg Businessweek.• Mr. Giuliani runs “a globe-trotting consulting business,” Ms. Baker writes. “In the past two years he’s given speeches and done consulting and legal work in Armenia, Bahrain, Brazil, Colombia, Turkey, and Uruguay, among other countries,” as well as significant work in Ukraine.• But “the question of conflict arises, in part, because Giuliani keeps popping up in world capitals to make pronouncements that dovetail with Trump’s foreign policy positions.”• Mr. Giuliani says he tells clients that he doesn’t lobby the U.S. government. “ ‘There’s no conflict. What’s the conflict?’ he said. ‘I don’t ask the president for anything for them ever.’ He later added, ‘I don’t peddle influence. I don’t have to. I make a good deal of money as a lawyer and as a security consultant.’ ”• “Whatever he does next, whether it’s continuing as Trump’s personal lawyer or going back to full-time consulting, Giuliani is confident the business will continue to flow. ‘I got clients before I represented President Trump, and I’m gonna get clients afterwards,’ he said. ‘After I stop representing him, I’ll be doing more work overseas, because I’ll have more time.’ ”The World Bank’s board is reportedly expected to approve David Malpass as its president today.Lars Idermark resigned as Swedbank’s chairman amid an investigation into alleged money laundering at the Swedish lender.President Trump plans to nominate Jovita Carranza, the U.S. treasurer, as his pick to lead the Small Business Administration, potentially replacing Linda McMahon.The Senate confirmed Mark Calabria, Vice President Mike Pence’s chief economist, as Mr. Trump’s pick to oversee Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.Deals• The company created to hold Yahoo’s $50 billion stake in the Alibaba Group plans to finally dissolve itself and distribute its holdings. (WSJ)• The European Central Bank reportedly will ask Deutsche Bank to raise fresh capital if it merges with Commerzbank. (Reuters)• Shares in Tradeweb, the bond-trading platform, jumped 27 percent on the company’s first day on the public markets. (Bloomberg)• Canyon Capital began a proxy fight at the student loan provider Navient yesterday and plans to seek four board seats. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• President Trump backed off his plan to close the border with Mexico, and instead threatened auto tariffs. (WSJ)• Mr. Trump signaled that he may block an effort to obtain six years’ worth of his tax returns. But even if lawmakers got the documents, they may not get the financial details they’re seeking. (WaPo, Bloomberg)• Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she’d rather build on the Affordable Care Act than adopt Medicare-for-all. (WaPo)• The Justice Department defended Attorney General William Barr’s handling of the Mueller report. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May has asked the E.U. to extend the Brexit deadline to June 30. The European Council’s president, Donald Tusk, had reportedly been preparing to offer a 12-month flexible delay. (BBC)• Ms. May’s attempts to reach cross-party agreement on her Brexit deal have made little progress. She is expected to offer a written proposal to Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, which will reportedly let lawmakers vote on whether to hold a referendum on any Brexit deal. (FT, Guardian)Tech• Britain is reportedly considering holding social media executives personally liable for harmful content on their platforms. (Guardian)• Google has scrapped its A.I. ethics board a little over a week after it was announced, after its choice of panel members drew criticism. (FT)• Microsoft is investigating sexual harassment claims that employees say were overlooked by its H.R. department. (Quartz)• Amazon is denting Google’s ad dominance. And Snap is about to try to take some of the same pie, too. (WSJ, Recode)Best of the rest• Leaders of Berkshire Hathaway’s many businesses are collaborating far more often now, suggesting a new way of doing business once Warren Buffett is no longer C.E.O. (WSJ)• A Tokyo court approved a 10-day detention of Carlos Ghosn, which his lawyer plans to appeal. Meanwhile, his wife spoke out about his latest arrest. (Reuters, NYT)• WikiLeaks says that Ecuador will evict Julian Assange from its London embassy within days. Ecuador denies the claim. (Bloomberg, Business Insider)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)DealBook exclusive: The energy company plans to announce today that it has given $5 million to Catalyst, a nonprofit focused on making corporate America more hospitable toward women.It’s funding Men Advocating Real Change, a Catalyst campaign that teaches male executives how to improve diversity and inclusion at their companies. (Among its tactics: lessons on unconscious bias.) Lorraine Hariton, Catalyst’s C.E.O., said it was the single biggest grant in the nonprofit’s 50-year history.Chevron has been a longtime supporter of Catalyst. It began working with the nonprofit 20 years ago, and Mike Wirth, the oil and gas giant’s C.E.O., helped introduce this program to the company two years ago. It now runs in seven Chevron offices worldwide.Diversity and inclusion has improved at Chevron. In 2010, only 6 percent of its board and 11 percent of its management committee were women. Now, it’s 36 percent for the board and 20 percent for the management committee. “I think the business case for this is compelling,” Mr. Wirth told Michael de la Merced of DealBook, saying more diversity has improved innovation.But there’s still a lot to do. Mr. Wirth said that oil and gas needed far more women in engineering and technical roles. And Ms. Hariton said that while companies have been hiring more women, the number of top female executives remains too small.President Trump is facing increasing pressure from Republicans, Democrats and even some of his own advisers to win the kind of large concessions that Beijing has long resisted, Alan Rappeport of the NYT writes.Mr. Trump has softened his threats against China. “Citing ‘substantial progress’ in talks between the United States and China, Mr. Trump on Sunday evening halted plans to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods at the end of this week,” Mr. Rappeport explains.But the Chinese may be dangling false promises, some top Democrats say, in hopes of ending a trade war that is damaging their economy, as well as hurting American farmers. Some Republicans fear that Mr. Trump may settle for a deal that simply reduces the trade deficit and offers relief to Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant.Many big sticking points remain, including China’s state subsidies for its businesses. Beijing also still appears to be falling short of the administration’s demands over intellectual property and cybertheft.“The blowback from both directions may leave Mr. Trump little choice but to keep the threat of tariffs alive so that he can continue to claim he’s being tough on China, analysts said,” according to Mr. Rappeport.More: The FT imagines what a trade deal might look like. Trade war is only one of the threats worrying President Xi Jinping of Chin. U.S. companies are planning their lowest rate of expansion in China since 2016. And a delay on further tariffs probably staved off inflation in America.The Securities and Exchange Commission says a series of tweets Elon Musk published last week violate its agreement with Tesla, and wants him held in contempt of court.Mr. Musk got in trouble last year by tweeting that he had “funding secured” to take Tesla private, when that wasn’t exactly the case. Tesla settled, promising the S.E.C. that it would set up “mandatory procedures to oversee and preapprove Mr. Musk’s Tesla-related written communications.”Then last week, he tweeted about a manufacturing triumph, saying Tesla would make “around 500,000” cars this year, up from a target of 400,000. He soon corrected himself and repeated the target of 400,000 deliveries. Tesla’s lawyers conceded that Mr. Musk hadn’t had his tweets reviewed, but argued “the substance” of his post had already been vetted and publicly disclosed. Mr. Musk followed up by needling the S.E.C., tweeting that it “forgot to read Tesla earnings transcript,” in which he forecast production of between 350,000 and 500,000 cars. “How embarrassing,” he added.“This is not an innocuous tweet,” Rebecca Roiphe, a professor at New York Law School, told the NYT. “Insiders have to be careful about revealing misleading information to the public.”Punishments the S.E.C. could seek, Ms. Roiphe said, include a fine, more restrictions on Mr. Musk’s social media use, or even his removal as C.E.O.With just over a month to go before Britain is scheduled to leave the E.U., Prime Minister Theresa May could U-turn on her commitment to keeping to schedule. And the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, under heavy pressure, has promised to support a second public vote.Mrs. May is letting her cabinet think the unthinkable. The prime minister, who has repeatedly insisted that Brexit will occur on March 29, will allow her colleagues “to discuss extending the deadline” today, according to Bloomberg, which sets out what she’d be risking and why:• “On one hand, it would avert mass resignations from pro-E.U. ministers in May’s team, and potentially a defeat in Parliament this week.”• “But it would also risk a destabilizing backlash from Euroskeptic Conservatives.”And Mr. Corbyn has made a big concession to pro-Europeans. He had long resisted a second Brexit referendum, but has had to reconsider after several pro-E.U. lawmakers quit his Labour Party. Stephen Castle of the NYT explains what the reversal means:• “At the moment, it is unlikely that a second vote would win a majority in Parliament because most lawmakers still oppose the idea.”• “But if Mrs. May’s Brexit plan is rejected next month for a second time, then the calculation in Parliament could change.”Dozens of current and former employees of a company called Cognizant, which reviews content for the social network, spoke to the Verge. The investigation makes for grim reading:• “Employees described a workplace that is perpetually teetering on the brink of chaos. It is an environment where workers cope by telling dark jokes about committing suicide, then smoke weed during breaks to numb their emotions.”• “In stark contrast to the perks lavished on Facebook employees, team leaders micromanage content moderators’ every bathroom and prayer break,” and employees “have been found having sex inside stairwells.”• “They are pressured not to discuss the emotional toll that their job takes on them, even with loved ones, leading to increased feelings of isolation and anxiety.”• “Moderators told me it’s a place where the conspiracy videos and memes that they see each day gradually lead them to embrace fringe views. One auditor walks the floor promoting the idea that the Earth is flat.”• “Moderators in Phoenix will make just $28,800 per year — while the average Facebook employee has a total compensation of $240,000.” Facebook’s response: In a statement yesterday, it said it was “putting in place a rigorous and regular compliance and audit process for all of our outsourced partners to ensure they are complying with the contracts and care we expect.”Bank of America plans to erase the Merrill Lynch name from its investment banking and trading arms. They’ll go by “BofA Securities” rather than “Bank of America Merrill Lynch,” and its wealth-management unit will be “Merrill.”It’s the end of an era. Merrill Lynch was one of the best-known names on Wall Street when Bank of America bought it during the 2008 financial crisis. At the time, Bank of America was a big lender, built from years of acquisitions — but a minnow in high finance.The combined firm struggled with culture clashes. Longtime Merrill employees were proud of “Mother Merrill” and the “thundering herd” that was its wealth-management arm. The WSJ reports that Bank of America backed away from changing the name before.But now it wants a seamless identity. “We are continuing to unify the company, continuing down the road we started on a decade ago,” Bank of America’s C.E.O., Brian Moynihan, told the WSJ. (He has also pushed the firm into safe businesses, de-emphasizing the risk-taking that left Merrill needing a buyer.)The only place where staying as Merrill made sense was in wealth management. Mr. Moynihan called it “the No. 1 brand there is.”Last year, President Trump replaced Janet Yellen with Jerome Powell as head of the Federal Reserve. Since, Mr. Trump has broken with precedent by publicly criticizing Mr. Powell for raising interest rates. Ms. Yellen has now made clear what she thinks of all that in an interview with Marketplace.• When the host of Marketplace, Kai Ryssdal, asked if she thought the president “has a grasp of macroeconomic policy,” Ms. Yellen replied, “No, I do not.”• When asked to elaborate, she said, “Well, I doubt that he would even be able to say that the Fed’s goals are maximum employment and price stability.”• “He’s made comments about the Fed having an exchange rate objective in order to support his trade plans, or possibly targeting the U.S. balance of trade,” she added. “And, you know, I think comments like that shows a lack of understanding of the impact of the Fed on the economy, and appropriate policy goals.”Amazon added the former PepsiCo C.E.O. Indra Nooyi to its board.Deals• G.E., continuing to dismantle itself, agreed to sell its biopharmaceutical business to Danaher for $21.4 billion. (NYT)• Warren Buffett admitted that Berkshire Hathaway overpaid for its stake in Kraft Heinz and said it wouldn’t buy more shares: “The business does not earn more just because you pay more for it.” (Bloomberg)• Barrick Gold’s $17.8 billion bid for Newmont Mining has cast a spotlight on two top deal makers: Barrick’s chairman, John Thornton, and Michael Klein, the rainmaker advising him. (Bloomberg)• How lesser-known private equity firms like Veritas Capital and CC Capital are stealing the limelight from larger rivals. (FT)• The telecom company Windstream filed for bankruptcy protection after losing a court fight with a hedge fund. (Barron’s)Politics and policy• Michael Cohen reportedly plans to tell the House Oversight Committee today that President Trump broke the law while in office. (WSJ)• The Senate appears likely to vote against Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration for a border wall. (Politico)• Alva Johnson, who worked on the 2016 Trump campaign, has accused Mr. Trump of forcibly kissing her. (NYT)• Elizabeth Warren plans to forego fund-raising events with big donors. (NYT)• Meet Andrew Goldstein, one of Robert Mueller’s top deputies for his investigation into the president. (NYT)Tech• Telecom equipment appears not to be the only Chinese tech that makes the U.S. government nervous. (CNBC)• California lawmakers want to toughen the state’s already-strict privacy laws. (Bloomberg)• Microsoft defended its military work after protests from some employees last week. (Wired)• Why Toronto is attracting top tech talent. (FT)• T-Mobile has delayed its full 5G launch until later in 2019. (Verge)Best of the rest• Do two troubled banks make one good one? Germany may soon find out. (NYT)• Why proving Jeff Bezos’ accusations of blackmail and extortion could be tricky. (NYT)• Lyft’s I.P.O. has revived a debate: Should a minority of investors be allowed to control a company through dual-class shares? (FT)• The current stock market rally has everything — except investors. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTOKYO/BENGALURU — Panasonic Corp and Tesla Inc will continue to make new investments in the U.S. electric carmaker's Gigafactory as needed, but believe they can squeeze more out of existing resources than previously planned, Tesla said on Thursday.Separately, Panasonic said it was watching the demand situation in the electric car market before making any further investments in expanding the capacity of the Nevada plant.The two companies were responding to a report by Japan's Nikkei that said they had frozen previous plans to raise the capacity of the plant, which supplies battery packs for Tesla cars.""Both Tesla and Panasonic continue to invest substantial funds into Gigafactory,"" a Tesla spokesperson said.""That said, we believe there is far more output to be gained from improving existing production equipment than was previously estimated.""Giving no details of its sources, the Nikkei reported https://asia.nikkei.com/Business/Companies/Tesla-and-Panasonic-freeze-spending-on-4.5bn-Gigafactory that financial issues had led the companies to rethink plans to expand the capacity of Gigafactory 1 by another 50 percent next year.The business daily said the companies had already together invested $4.5 billion in the facility and had been planning to expand the plant's capacity to the equivalent of 54 gigawatt hours (GWh) a year in 2020 from 35 GWh at present.""Panasonic established a battery production capacity of 35 GWh in Tesla's Gigafactory 1 by the end of March 2019 in line with growing demand,"" Japan-based Panasonic said in an email. ""Watching the demand situation, Panasonic will study additional investments over 35 GWh in collaboration with Tesla.""Neither company had made public detailed future development plans for the site, although Panasonic said https://www.reuters.com/article/us-panasonic-batteries-idUSKBN1JS08J in July last year it would consider further investment in the Gigafactory if requested by the U.S. electric carmaker.Panasonic is the exclusive battery cell supplier for Tesla, which in turn is Panasonic's biggest EV battery client. In February, Tesla said it had agreed to buy U.S. energy storage company Maxwell Technologies Inc, sending shares in Panasonic lower.Tesla Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk also said in November the U.S. company would manufacture all its battery modules and packs at its new Shanghai factory and planned to diversify its sources.The Nikkei report said Panasonic would also suspend its planned investment in Tesla's new Shanghai plant and would instead provide technical support and a small number of batteries from the Gigafactory.The Japanese company has only said that it was studying various possibilities with regards to the plant.Lower-than-expected car deliveries by Tesla in the first quarter spooked stock and bond investors earlier this month, adding to Wall Street's concerns about its future cashflow.Tesla is expected to report first-quarter earnings on April 24. (Reporting by Vibhuti Sharma in Bengaluru; Editing by Patrick Graham, Anil D'Silva and Shounak Dasgupta)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byIt was only the second flight for what is the most powerful rocket now available on Earth, improving on its spectacular test launch in 2018.By Kenneth ChangThe Falcon Heavy roared into space on Thursday night, arcing atop three columns of flame toward orbit with a large satellite on board.It was the second launch for what is the most powerful rocket in operation today, a reminder of its majestic test launch fourteen months ago from the same launchpad, 39A, at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center in Florida.[Sign up to get reminders for space and astronomy events on your calendar.]At moments, the 2018 launch seemed like a lengthy advertisement for the ambitions of Elon Musk, SpaceX’s founder and chief executive. It carried a spacesuit-wearing mannequin, nicknamed Starman, seated in the driver’s seat of a red Roadster built by Mr. Musk’s other company, Tesla. The sports car and its driver streamed video back to Earth of their journey out into the solar system.This time, the Falcon Heavy’s cargo was more mundane, but also more useful: Arabsat-6A, a Saudi Arabian communications satellite which will relay television, internet and mobile phone signals to the Middle East, Africa and Europe.Shortly after the launch, the rocket’s three boosters returned to Earth. Two touched down seconds apart at landing pads at Cape Canaveral, not far from the launchpad. The center booster, which went higher and farther, set down on a floating platform in the Atlantic Ocean. Sticking that third landing was an advancement for SpaceX, after a similar maneuver failed in 2018 on the first try. The booster then missed the platform, hitting the water at more than 300 miles per hour. The company’s workhorse is the Falcon 9 rocket, which first launched in 2010. The first stage of the Heavy essentially consists of three Falcon 9 first stages bound together. The second stages of the two rockets are identical. The additional thrust allows the Heavy to propel 140,000 pounds to low-Earth orbit, nearly three times what the Falcon 9 can lift.On the test flight, the two side boosters were older versions reused from earlier flights. (SpaceX’s best innovation to date is landing the booster stage of its rockets and launching it again; traditionally, rockets have been one-use throwaways, with the booster stages dropped into the ocean.)For this one, the side boosters had never before been used. They were the latest version of the rocket, called “Block Five.” (“Block” is what rocket companies call a major upgrade.) That boosts the thrust and how much the Falcon Heavy can carry.Even though the first Falcon Heavy flight appeared to be nearly flawless, SpaceX probably made adjustments. That, after all, is the reason a rocket company performs a test flight for a new rocket design.SpaceX also has had a backlog of Falcon 9 missions to fly. It launched 20 Falcon 9 missions in 2018, more than in any previous year, in addition to the one Falcon Heavy launch. The company was also busy at work developing its Crew Dragon capsule for taking NASA astronauts to and from the International Space Station.The market for the Falcon Heavy is also much smaller than once envisioned. When Mr. Musk first announced the rocket in 2011, he said he expected that there would be a 50/50 mix between the Falcon 9 and the Falcon Heavy. In the years since, improvements have made the Falcon 9 more powerful, and miniaturization of electronics has shrunk the size of many satellites.The Falcon Heavy is now needed for only the largest satellites like the 13,000-pound Arabsat-6A satellite, which is headed to geosynchronous orbit more than 22,000 miles above Earth. The satellite could have been launched on a Falcon 9, but with the added thrust of a Heavy, the satellite could use less of its own fuel to reach its final orbit, extending its lifetime.SpaceX launched its Falcon Heavy rocket for the second time on Thursday.One more Falcon Heavy flight is scheduled for this year — a mission for the United States Air Force carrying 25 small satellites.In addition, SpaceX has announced contracts for two Falcon Heavy launches of commercial satellites, and the company has won two competitions to use the rocket for national security missions.At present, no, but that answer could change.In 2017, SpaceX announced that two space tourists would go on an around-the-moon trip in one of the company’s Crew Dragon capsules launched by a Falcon Heavy. But when the first Heavy reached the launchpad last year, SpaceX said it had decided not to go to the expense and effort of making the rocket safe enough for launching people.The possibility of using the Falcon Heavy for lunar missions was revived last month by Jim Bridenstine, the NASA administrator, when he told a Senate committee that the big rocket that his agency is developing, the Space Launch System, would not be ready for its first test flight in 2020. NASA was looking into using commercial rockets as an alternative, he said.One of the alternatives was putting the second stage of the Space Launch System on top of a Falcon Heavy first stage. Mr. Bridenstine later said that option was feasible but could not be done by next year, because major changes would be needed to the boosters and SpaceX’s launchpad to accommodate the Frankenstein rocket combination. Mr. Bridenstine, however, left the door open, saying that NASA would explore all options to meet the Trump administrations goal of sending astronauts back to the moon by the end of 2024.SpaceX’s next-generation rocket was once known as B.F.R. where “B” stood for “big” and “R” stood for “rocket.” It now has the less colorful name Starship. SpaceX has begun small hop tests of a preliminary design, nicknamed Starhopper. The full-fledged design is to reach orbit and eventually make distant journeys to the moon and Mars, but that is still years away.One of Starship’s first passengers is to be Yusaku Maezawa, founder of the online Japanese clothing company Zozo. Mr. Maezawa had been one of the lunar tourists who had signed up for the Falcon Heavy trip around the moon but now will wait longer for the even larger rocket.Kenneth Chang has been at The Times since 2000, writing about physics, geology, chemistry, and the planets. Before becoming a science writer, he was a graduate student whose research involved the control of chaos.  @kchangnyt Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A federal appeals court ruled against the Justice Department on its bid to block AT&T’s $85.4 billion takeover of Time Warner. It’s the final blow to the government’s two-year effort to thwart one of the biggest media mergers in years.A three-judge panel ruled that a lower court had applied antitrust laws correctly. “The government’s objections that the District Court misunderstood and misapplied economic principles and clearly erred in rejecting the quantitative model are unpersuasive,” Judge Judith Rogers wrote on behalf of the panel.AT&T is free to reboot Time Warner. Now a division known as WarnerMedia, it will be turned into a streaming-video business — AT&T’s version of what has become the TV industry’s go-to strategy. Among its planned products: a service that combines HBO, Warner Bros. movies like “Wonder Woman” and shows like “Friends.”The Justice Department won’t appeal the decision. The court’s ruling was a blow to the department’s top antitrust official, Makan Delrahim, who had hoped the case would strike a blow against so-called vertical mergers, which combine companies with complementary businesses.Where should Mr. Delrahim look now? Joe Nocera of Bloomberg Opinion argues that there are far larger consolidation problems in other industries, including tech and airlines.Many executives facing a contempt of court allegation from the Securities and Exchange Commission would stay quiet. Not Elon Musk.“Something is broken with S.E.C. oversight,” the Tesla C.E.O. tweeted yesterday. He was replying to a follower who complained about the contempt accusation moving Tesla’s stock.That will annoy S.E.C. officials, who worry that Mr. Musk isn’t taking their previous settlement with him seriously, according to the WSJ. Tesla lawyers conceded to the S.E.C. that they did not vet a tweet by Mr. Musk about production targets, though they helped write a subsequent “clarifying” tweet.The S.E.C. must try to punish Mr. Musk, some experts say. Officials “have to enforce this settlement,” Charles Elson of the University of Delaware told the FT. “If they let this go, then every C.E.O. will be saying they’re special.” But other lawyers think Mr. Musk’s actions underscore how toothless the S.E.C. is.All eyes will be on Michael Cohen at 10 a.m. Eastern today as he testifies before the House Oversight and Reform Committee. Mr. Cohen, once President Trump’s personal lawyer, has prepared testimony in which he’s expected to call his onetime boss a “con man” and a “cheat,” Nicholas Fandos and Maggie Haberman of the NYT report:• “Mr. Cohen is likely to lay out a picture of Mr. Trump that is fundamentally at odds with the take-charge, top-flight businessman persona he developed on the reality show ‘The Apprentice’ over the course of a decade.”• “Among the most explosive and potentially damning aspects of Mr. Cohen’s testimony before the oversight committee will be providing evidence of potential criminal conduct since Mr. Trump became president, according to people familiar with the plans.” Some of that is tied to hush payments made to the porn star Stormy Daniels.• Mr. Cohen is also expected to discuss the role of Allen Weisselberg, the Trump Organization’s C.F.O., in those payments, as well as how long Mr. Trump continued to discuss plans for a Trump Tower in Moscow in 2016.• “He will also describe the president inflating or devaluing his net worth, referring to a financial statement of Mr. Trump’s that Mr. Cohen has in his possession, the people said.”• The scheduled testimony has already sparked some controversy, with Rep. Matt Gaetz, a Florida Republican and ally of the president, threatening to reveal what he said were Mr. Cohen’s extramarital affairs. Mr. Gaetz subsequently apologized.Prime Minister Theresa May has agreed that Parliament should have the option of seeking to delay Britain’s exit from the E.U., Stephen Castle of the NYT reports.Her new plan offers lawmakers a vote on her Brexit deal by March 12. If that is rejected, a second vote by March 13 will let Parliament choose to leave the E.U. without a deal. If that is rejected, a vote will be held by March 14 that would allow lawmakers to request a “short, limited extension” to the process.“Mrs. May’s reversal was striking because she had insisted dozens of times in Parliament that Britain would definitely leave the European Union on schedule on March 29,” Mr. Castle writes. But it is “the latest in a long line of retreats as she has struggled to cajole the fractious Tories into supporting a revised version of the deal.”“While her move lessens significantly the risk of a potentially disastrous ‘no deal’ Brexit by the March 29 deadline, an extension of the negotiating period will merely delay that danger by a couple of months, not end it,” Mr. Castle adds.All 27 other E.U. governments would have to approve a postponement, and “unless Britain plans to hold a general election or another referendum, the delay is not likely to extend beyond early July, when a newly elected European Parliament is scheduled to meet.”More: The news reduces the significance of a series of parliamentary votes on a Brexit motion scheduled for later today. The pound is rebounding. And the E.U. has agreed on tough rules for London-based financial services companies operating on the Continent after Brexit.The Federal Trade Commission announced yesterday that it had a new team of officials to police tech giants.The task force will have 17 staff lawyers dedicated to “monitoring competition in U.S. technology markets, investigating any potential anticompetitive conduct in those markets, and taking enforcement actions when warranted.”Tech “grows more important every day” in both the economy and daily life, the F.T.C.’s chairman, Joe Simons, said. “It makes sense for us to closely examine technology markets to ensure consumers benefit from free and fair competition.”It’s not the F.T.C.’s first move against the tech giants. It was reported earlier this month to be considering a record multibillion-dollar fine for Facebook over privacy violations. And critics have increasingly called for breaking up big tech companies — especially the likes of Facebook, which controls Instagram and WhatsApp.The F.T.C. competition director sees “distinct challenges” for antitrust enforcement in tech. That director, Bruce Hoffman, is also quoted at the Verge as suggesting that some companies could be forced to “spin off” previous acquisitions.President Trump’s decision to cap a popular tax break will affect 11 million filers this year, Jim Tankersley of the NYT reports:• A $10,000 cap on deductions of state and local taxes from federal income taxes, which was intended to reduce the cost of Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut, will mean filers cannot deduct $323 billion on their 2018 federal returns.• “Many filers will benefit from different parts of the tax cuts, such as the elimination of the alternative minimum tax and the reduction in marginal tax rates. Additionally, the law doubled the standard deduction that taxpayers may take, along with a host of other tax changes,” Mr. Tankersley writes.• “The so-called SALT cap is, however, most likely to affect the richest Americans: More than half of the tax increases from the change will fall on the top 1 percent of income earners, according to estimates by the independent Tax Policy Center in Washington.”Some of the biggest figures in finance and economics have conflicting takes.The Fed’s chairman, Jay Powell, told the Senate Banking Committee yesterday that current economic conditions were “healthy” and their outlook “favorable.” But he added that there were “crosscurrents and conflicting signals,” which meant that financial conditions were “now less supportive of growth than they were earlier last year.”Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase is also wary. “We are prepared for a recession,” he said in the bank’s annual presentation to investors yesterday. “We’re not predicting a recession. We’re simply pointing out that we are very conscious about the risks we bear.”But Goldman Sachs is more sanguine. In a note published yesterday, economists at the firm argued that “some green shoots are emerging that suggest that sequential growth will pick up from here.” They believe the U.S. economy stands a good chance of picking up, and that China’s might, too.Deutsche Bank hired Robert Innocentin from Bank of America as a managing director for its financial sponsors team, part of its investment-banking business.Goldman Sachs has reportedly hired 100 employees to work in its nascent corporate cash management business, which aims to challenge Citigroup and JPMorgan Chase.Deals• EBay is reportedly near a deal that would give the activist hedge funds Elliott Management and Starboard Value seats on its board and prepare the online marketplace for a breakup. (WSJ)• Sunrise Communications is in “advanced discussions” to buy Liberty Global’s Swiss unit for $6.3 billion. (Reuters)• The British retailer Marks & Spencer will pay up to £750 million, or $996 million, to form a joint venture with the online grocery specialist Ocado. (FT)• Volkswagen plans to invest $1.7 billion into Ford Motor’s self-driving car division. (WSJ)• ThirdLove, a lingerie start-up challenging Victoria’s Secret, raised $55 million from L Catterton, Katie Couric and the YouTube C.E.O. Susan Wojcicki. (Forbes)Politics and policy• President Trump may drop a demand that North Korea eliminate nuclear weapons in pursuit of a peace deal. (NYT)• The Senate Finance Committee grilled the C.E.O.s of seven pharmaceutical companies about lowering drug prices. (WSJ)• The Congressional Budget Office said that the U.S. government will run out of cash by early fall if its debt limit isn’t increased. (Bloomberg)• The House passed a bill designating over one million acres of wilderness for environmental protection. It still needs Mr. Trump’s approval. (NYT)• Gary Cohn is writing a memoir that covers his time in the White House. (CNBC)Trade• President Trump might be undermining his trade negotiators, weakening a potential deal with China. (NYT)Tech• Facebook dropped the ball on privacy and fake news. Could it do better on hate speech? (Vanity Fair)• Also: Its new subscription platform for content creators, which would compete with Patreon, appears to offer lousy terms. (Verge)• At the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, American officials called Huawei “duplicitous and deceitful.” Meanwhile, the United Arab Emirates announced that it plans to use Huawei hardware to build high-speed wireless networks. (WSJ, NYT)• I.P.O investors will find Lyft and Uber hard to value, because they bear so little relation to other companies. (Bloomberg Opinion)Best of the rest• Fiat Chrysler plans to invest $4.5 billion around Detroit in the next three years, updating plants and creating jobs. (NYT)• A three-hour malfunction affected after-hours trading of U.S. Treasuries, stock futures and commodities last night. (Bloomberg)• Jay Powell, the Fed’s chairman, says that the idea that America might not honor its debt obligations “can’t even be considered.” (CNBC)• Walmart is doubling down on efforts to profit from advertising and selling customer data. (WSJ)• U.S. automakers bet heavily on China’s booming car market and cheap labor. It hasn’t paid off. (NYT)• If tough bosses get results, they’re of a sort researchers struggle to find. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersTOKYO/BENGALURU — Panasonic Corp and Tesla Inc will continue to make new investments in the U.S. electric carmaker's Gigafactory as needed, but believe they can squeeze more out of existing resources than previously planned, Tesla said on Thursday.Separately, Panasonic said it was watching the demand situation in the electric car market before making any further investments in expanding the capacity of the Nevada plant.The two companies were responding to a report by Japan's Nikkei that said they had frozen previous plans to raise the capacity of the plant, which supplies battery packs for Tesla cars.""Both Tesla and Panasonic continue to invest substantial funds into Gigafactory,"" a Tesla spokesperson said.""That said, we believe there is far more output to be gained from improving existing production equipment than was previously estimated.""Giving no details of its sources, the Nikkei reported that financial issues had led the companies to rethink plans to expand the capacity of Gigafactory 1 by another 50 percent next year.The business daily said the companies had already together invested $4.5 billion in the facility and had been planning to expand the plant's capacity to the equivalent of 54 gigawatt hours (GWh) a year in 2020 from 35 GWh at present.The 35 GWh capacity can produce batteries for about 500,000 electric vehicles a year, a source familiar with Tesla's plans said, meaning that the previously planned expansion would have made the capacity enough for around 770,000 electric vehicles. ""Panasonic established a battery production capacity of 35 GWh in Tesla's Gigafactory 1 by the end of March 2019 in line with growing demand,"" Japan-based Panasonic said in an email. ""Watching the demand situation, Panasonic will study additional investments over 35 GWh in collaboration with Tesla.""Neither company had made public their detailed future development plans for the site, although Panasonic said in October it was in talks to add to its investment and take capacity over the 35 GWh. Tesla slid 2.8 percent on the Nasdaq Thursday, while Panasonic shares rose 2.6 percent in midday Tokyo trade Friday.""Panasonic shares have been dragged down by various Tesla woes,"" Masayuki Otani, chief market analyst at Securities Japan. ""Turning cautious about further investments is good for Panasonic. It helps the company reduce the influence of Tesla."" Panasonic is the exclusive battery cell supplier for Tesla, which in turn is Panasonic's biggest electric vehicle battery client. In February, Tesla said it had agreed to buy U.S. energy storage company Maxwell Technologies Inc, sending shares in Panasonic lower.Tesla Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk also said in November the U.S. company would manufacture all its battery modules and packs at its new Shanghai factory and planned to diversify its sources.The Nikkei report said Panasonic would also suspend its planned investment in Tesla's new Shanghai plant and would instead provide technical support and a small number of batteries from the Gigafactory.The Japanese company said in October it would prioritize building additional capacity at the Gigafactory over China.Lower-than-expected car deliveries by Tesla in the first quarter spooked stock and bond investors earlier this month, adding to Wall Street's concerns about its future cashflow.Tesla is expected to report first-quarter earnings on April 24. (Reporting by Vibhuti Sharma in Bengaluru; Editing by Patrick Graham, Anil D'Silva and Shounak Dasgupta)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)President Trump has long enjoyed the backing of one major lender: Deutsche Bank. David Enrich of the NYT has taken a deep look into their often turbulent relationship — which is now under investigation by prosecutors and Congress.Deutsche Bank courted Mr. Trump when no one else would. He had already gone bankrupt, and no Wall Street lender would back him. But bankers at Deutsche like Mike Offit and Justin Kennedy (the son of Justice Anthony Kennedy) lent him millions. Mr. Trump rewarded some bankers, after some prompting, with a trip to his Mar-a-Lago resort.It issued loans despite finding financial discrepancies. Deutsche Bank officials concluded that Mr. Trump was worth about $788 million, not his self-proclaimed $3 billion. And a senior banking executive told Mr. Enrich that he had told others that Mr. Trump had worked with people in the construction industry who were tied to organized crime.Only when Mr. Trump sued Deutsche Bank did its investment banking arm drop him as a client. But its private wealth arm, hungry for business, eventually took him back and lent him millions more.After the 2016 election, Deutsche Bank executives admitted to problems. They concluded that their colleagues had ignored many warning signs about Mr. Trump, including from internal “exposure reports.” Salesmen for the firm were warned not to utter Mr. Trump’s name in public.Now the bank is in investigators’ cross hairs, and plans to hand over extensive internal documentation to Congress and federal prosecutors. Rosemary Vrablic, Mr. Trump’s main private banker — “She is the boss,” he once told the NYT — expects to be called to testify on Capitol Hill.After Elon Musk accused the S.E.C. of trying to trample on his constitutional rights, the regulator hit back yesterday, reiterating its case that the Tesla chief should be held in contempt of court, Bloomberg reports.The S.E.C. says he’s violating a court settlement under which it agreed not to charge him with securities fraud. He was supposed to have lawyers vet any Tesla-related tweets before he posts them; the S.E.C. said he hadn’t done so even once.Mr. Musk had argued that the S.E.C.’s objection was to one tweet, which mentioned previously undisclosed production forecasts. But the regulator said that the settlement was meant to cover a wide variety of his statements.“Such brazen disregard of this court’s order is unacceptable and unworkable going forward,” the S.E.C. said.A lawyer for Mr. Musk plans to respond in court by Friday. According to Bloomberg, the lawyer, John Hueston, said that the response “would include documents reflecting the negotiation history between Musk and the S.E.C., which he said would undermine the S.E.C.’s new assertions.”More officials are seeking answers from Boeing about an automated piloting feature that may have played a role in two fatal crashes involving its 737 Max 8 airplane.• House and Senate committees are preparing to question F.A.A. leaders next month about the Max jets, with a focus on the stall-prevention system, according to the WSJ.• Canada’s aviation regulator is reviewing its validation of the American certification of the 737 Max, Marc Garneau, the nation’s transport minister, told reporters yesterday.• They join officials from the Justice Department and the Transportation Department, who are studying the Max jet’s development process. The Transportation Department inspector general’s office is also investigating if the F.A.A. took shortcuts in the jet’s safety approval.Boeing’s C.E.O., Dennis Muilenburg, spoke out yesterday, making his first substantive public comments about the crash. “Our hearts are heavy, and we continue to extend our deepest sympathies to the loved ones of the passengers and crew on board,” he said. He added that Boeing was “taking actions to fully ensure the safety of the 737 Max.”More: If demand for Max jets falters, Airbus might struggle to build its rival offering, the A320neo, fast enough.The semiconductor industry is looking at an impending deal between the U.S. and China, and it doesn’t like what it sees — whether the talks succeed or fail.Chip-makers fear unintended consequences from one of Washington’s key demands, the WSJ reports, that Beijing promise more than $1 trillion in purchases of American goods and services over six years:• “China has offered to buy $30 billion of U.S. chips over six years, industry officials said, essentially doubling U.S. semiconductor exports to China.”• “For Beijing to guarantee the sales would require it to put together a kind of quota system, industry officials argued, and that mechanism could later be used to dole out contracts to Chinese firms.”But their investors have priced in extra orders from China. Shares in companies like Intel and AMD have jumped in value by as much as 20 percent so far this year as hopes of a trade deal with Beijing have risen. All that could go away if the talks break down.So what to do? Chip-makers have asked the Trump administration “not to include them” in any agreement over boosted trade quotas, according to the WSJ. (They have expressed support for other parts of the trade deal, including protection of intellectual property.)One of the biggest questions surrounding the National Enquirer’s exposé of Jeff Bezos’ affair with Lauren Sanchez was how it got the photos and text messages that it published. The answer, according to the WSJ: They came from Ms. Sanchez’s brother.• “Michael Sanchez, the brother of Mr. Bezos’ lover, sold the billionaire’s secrets for $200,000 to the Enquirer’s publisher, said people familiar with the matter.”• “Mr. Sanchez began conversations last fall with the tabloid about his sister’s relationship with Mr. Bezos, the people said. The Enquirer by then had already been investigating whether Mr. Bezos and Ms. Sanchez were having an affair.”• But David Pecker, the head of the National Enquirer’s parent company, was “concerned Mr. Bezos would sue, forcing debt-laden American Media to expend resources to defend itself for a story executives believed was unlikely to sell well on newsstands.”• He was also advised that publishing the story might make the Enquirer look like it was doing the bidding of President Trump, who has publicly criticized Mr. Bezos.• Ultimately, of course, the story was published. But American Media’s financial backers, Chatham Asset Management, “conveyed their displeasure” about the fallout and “pressured Mr. Pecker to resolve the matter.”Kevin Tsujihara quit as the head of WarnerMedia’s Warner Bros. movie division yesterday, facing claims that he tried to further the career of an actress he had a sexual relationship with, Ed Lee of the NYT reports.Mr. Tsujihara is accused of helping Charlotte Kirk by putting her up for movie and TV parts. Rumors about his activities had swirled in Hollywood for a year, but were made public in a March 6 article in The Hollywood Reporter.He said that he decided to leave after talking with John Stankey, the head of WarnerMedia. But WarnerMedia said that the investigation would continue even after Mr. Tsujihara’s departure.It’s a black eye for WarnerMedia’s owner, AT&T. The telecom company considered the accusation before it promoted Mr. Tsujihara two weeks ago. Now it must fill his role while enduring a kind of scandal that it hasn’t experienced before. (Stacey Snider and Peter Chernin, both Hollywood veterans, may replace Mr. Tsujihara.)When the college admissions scandal news broke last week, it exposed how the SAT and ACT tests could be gamed. Bloomberg Businessweek spoke to Rebecca Kantar, the founder of a start-up called Imbellus, who thinks she knows how to shake things up.• Ms. Kantar says that standardized tests could be abused by the wealthy, through tutoring and fake scores, and give little insight about skills that will be useful in the future.• “The digital assessments Imbellus has developed resemble video games” that test decision-making, Romesh Ratnesar of Bloomberg writes. “Because each simulation delivers a unique user experience, they’re intended to be cheatproof.”• “We’re establishing that simulation-based assessments are a better medium for getting at deep-thinking skills than multiple-choice tests,” Ms. Kantar said.• So far, the company has raised $23.5 million in funding, and developed employee tests for McKinsey and Company and a few others.• “Kantar plans to begin giving the Imbellus test to high schoolers later this year,” Mr. Ratnesar writes. “She also says, without going into many details, that the company is bidding to take part in a federally funded national assessment that will test 100,000 students in 2022.”Fox News has hired Donna Brazile, the former interim Democratic Party chairwoman, as a commentator.UBS hired Bob Casey from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey and Robert Jackman from Outvest Capital as managing directors on its U.S. tech banking team.Goldman Sachs is aiming to have half of its junior banker hires in the U.S. be women.Deals• The European Central Bank’s top regulator said he didn’t approve of national champions, which could complicate a merger of Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank. (FT)• Levi Strauss will begin trading publicly on Thursday, marking a turnaround for the inventor of bluejeans. (NYT)• Wall Street keeps falling in love with risky, repackaged debt — and could get burned again. (NYT Op-Ed)• EasyJet dropped out of Delta Air Lines’ bid for the bankrupt Italian carrier Alitalia. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• White House economic advisers say President Trump can’t sustain his economic boom without an infrastructure spending bill and more tax cuts. (WaPo)• Mr. Trump demanded that G.M. reopen a big car plant in Ohio. (NYT)• The Justice Department will soon decide whether to charge Gregory Craig, a former Obama administration official, with violating foreign lobbying laws. (NYT)• Alan Krueger, an economist who served in the Clinton and Obama administrations, has died at 58. (NYT)• President Trump’s re-election campaign has reportedly spent $4.5 million on Facebook and Google ads this year — nearly twice as much as the entire Democratic field. (Axios)Brexit• The speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, moved to deny Prime Minister Theresa May a further vote on her proposed Brexit agreement. (NYT)• But the E.U. is reportedly planning to agree to a three- or nine-month delay on Brexit, which may be a change large enough for Mr. Bercow to permit another vote. (Guardian)Trade• As America focuses on its strategic relations with China, a question is emerging: Would Europe be able to cope without the U.S.? (Axios)• China’s Belt and Road initiative could revive the fortunes of a once-famous European port. (NYT)Tech• Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, said her top priority was cybertheats. (NYT)• The U.S. announced plans to build a $500 million supercomputer as it races to keep up with China. (NYT)• Facebook says that the video of the New Zealand mosque shootings was viewed 4,000 times before it was removed. Also: New Zealand and Australia have urged Facebook to police extremism; and how social media’s business model helped the video spread. (CNBC, Bloomberg, WaPo)• President Vladimir Putin of Russia signed a law that bans what the authorities regard as fake news. (Reuters)Best of the rest• How PG&E overlooked wildfire risks in favor of its bottom line. (NYT)• A survey of women in economics revealed widespread bias and nearly 100 accusations of sexual assault. (NYT)• The Fed uses so-called dot plots to show how its 19 officials expect interest rates to change — but investors seem increasingly confused. (WSJ)• Can sophisticated investors be defrauded? The courts keep saying no. (DealBook)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" Advertisement

      By CHRIS STANFORD and 
    
ANNA SCHAVERIEN

MARCH 8, 2019

Did you stay up to date this week? Take our quiz to find out.

Last week, the question about Michael Cohen’s testimony in Congress had the highest share of correct answers, with 96 percent. Only 34 percent knew about the wildfires in Britain.

The news quiz is published on Friday mornings. Click here for other weeks’ quizzes.
The deadliest tornado to hit the U.S. in six years killed at least 23 people in which state?AlabamaKansasMississippiTennessee“I stand with the president often, and I do so with a loud voice. Today, I think he’s wrong, not on policy, but in seeking to expand the powers of the presidency beyond their constitutional limits.”A fourth Republican senator announced support this week for a resolution that would overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the southern border, likely providing the crucial vote needed for the Senate to pass the measure.Who was it?Susan Collins of MaineLisa Murkowski of AlaskaRand Paul of KentuckyThom Tillis of North CarolinaResearchers announced that, for only the second time, a patient appears to have been cured of what?Alzheimer’s diseaseEbola virusH.I.V.Parkinson’s diseaseIn other health news this week, the Food and Drug Administration approved a fast-acting prescription treatment in the form of a nasal spray.Derived from the anesthetic ketamine, the drug is designed to treat which condition?AsthmaBronchitisDepressionHigh blood pressureThe first American spacecraft capable of carrying astronauts since the retirement of the space shuttles in 2011 launched last weekend.The demonstration flight involved a vehicle built by SpaceX, founded by Elon Musk. Which word completes the name of the craft: Crew ?CentaurDragonPegasusPhoenixSenator Jeff Merkley of Oregon, pictured above, was one of several top Democrats to officially declare this week that they would not be seeking their party’s 2020 presidential nomination. Which one of these was not among them?John KerryMichael BloombergHillary ClintonEric HolderSNC-Lavalin, a company accused of bribing the Libyan government, is at the center of a growing political crisis that is threatening the government of which country?CanadaFranceItalyIsraelPope Francis announced that sealed archives from the pontificate of Pope Pius XII would be opened next year.The release was prompted by historians’ longtime efforts to examine the Roman Catholic Church’s response to which event?The 1969 moon landing The AIDS epidemicThe Cold War World War II and the HolocaustLuke Perry, the actor best known for his role on the 1990s TV hit “Beverly Hills, 90210,” died on Monday after being hospitalized for a stroke. He was 52.What was the name of his character on “90210”?BrandonDavidDylanSteveAfter a sexual abuse scandal postponed last year’s award, two Nobel Prizes will be given this year in which field?ChemistryEconomic sciencesLiteraturePhysicsLeBron James moved into fourth place on the list of the N.B.A.’s leading scorers this week.Which player did he pass to achieve the feat?Kareem Abdul-JabbarKobe BryantMichael JordanKarl MaloneAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Jack EwingGeneva — After years of promising electric cars, established carmakers are actually starting to build them.But manufacturers are realizing that a shift to battery power also requires them to retool their sales machinery. The old come-ons are obsolete. Range is the new horsepower. Connectivity replaces cylinder count. And sustainability is the new status symbol. Volvo’s Polestar 2 electric car, unveiled last week, even comes with a leather-free “vegan” interior.The need for carmakers to win over a public still hesitant about buying a car that needs half an hour or more to recharge is becoming more urgent as electric vehicles move closer to mass production.Battery-powered rides like the BMW i3, Nissan Leaf and Tesla’s lineup have been available for years. But this once-niche category is now expanding at a breakneck pace.There are dozens of new electric cars on display at the Geneva International Motor Show, which opened to the public on Thursday and continues through March 17. These are not concept cars that may never be for sale, as tended to be the case at previous shows. They are vehicles with familiar brand names that you will be able to buy this year or next.An electric Porsche is coming at the end of this year. Volkswagen is refitting a German factory to build a battery-powered car that, beginning in 2020, will sell for about the same price as a Golf.Audi, a unit of Volkswagen, showed nothing but battery-powered vehicles and hybrids at the Geneva show. Renault, one of the first companies to offer electric cars, is renewing its lineup. Volvo skipped the show in order to leave the stage to its all-electric Polestar.“2019 will be a decisive year for electromobility,” Herbert Diess, the Volkswagen chief executive, said at a company event in Geneva.It’s also a moment of truth for the traditional automakers, which have long argued that their decades of experience in manufacturing will allow them to avoid the start-up problems suffered by Tesla and to dominate the next wave of automotive technology.Tesla’s financial woes, which have prompted it to shutter retail stores and lay off 7 percent of its work force, may prove them right. But it remains to be seen whether the entrenched carmakers can generate the same energized fan base.The key to selling any product is differentiation, making your car seem cooler and more capable than all the others. Long ago, it was V-8 engines, six-speed automatic transmissions, and the actor Ricardo Montalbán caressing the “soft Corinthian leather” seats of a Chrysler Cordoba.But a lot of the features that set conventional cars apart, like fast acceleration, quiet interiors and smooth handling, are pretty much standard with electric cars.While gasoline engines need at least a few seconds to gather momentum, batteries deliver instant pep. Electric motors make very little noise. And battery packs, heavy and usually spread out beneath the passenger compartment, provide a low center of gravity and help glue an electric car to the road.Automakers also need to prevent their models from becoming commodities as the whole idea of car ownership is under attack by Uber, Lyft and other ride-share companies.One way Volvo and others are trying to answer the upstarts is by importing a bit of Silicon Valley vibe, even if their engineers are in Sweden or Stuttgart. Polestar, which is positioning itself as a brand separate from Volvo, staged the recent unveiling of the Polestar 2 as if it were a new iteration of the iPhone.Thomas Ingenlath, the chief executive of Polestar, bounded onto a stage in Gothenburg, Sweden, wearing a mustard-colored zip-up jacket over black slacks and a T-shirt and white sneakers.Polestar is “redefining premium for the electric age,” Mr. Ingenlath said, standing in front of a giant video screen. His presentation, broadcast online, was heavy on the car’s digital features, including an 11-inch touch screen and Google voice recognition software that allows drivers to summon driving directions or call up a tune from Spotify.A United States version of the Polestar 2 will go on sale early next year, initially in California and Washington State, for about $63,000. (The Polestar 1, a performance hybrid, has just begun rolling off a Chinese production line.) Dealerships will be small retail spaces in city downtowns, and some may be pop-up stores.When Mr. Ingenlath got to the part about the Polestar 2’s vegan interior, he showed an image of cows looking content, presumably because they were not fated to become car seats. “I will spare you now the video of mass production of leather,” Mr. Ingenlath said, somewhat darkly.Ricardo Montalbán, who died in 2009, may not have been a fan, but the pitch underlined the carmakers’ assumption that electric car buyers will skew green.The primary motivation of a customer who wants an electric vehicle “is being friendly to the planet,” Olivier Murguet, executive vice president for sales at French carmaker Renault, said in an interview in Geneva.But, he added, electric vehicle customers pay close attention to the same things as other car buyers, like the purchase price.Electric cars continue to cost thousands of dollars more than conventional vehicles. High price remains an obstacle, mostly because of the cost of the batteries. That may be less of a problem than it seems. Electric vehicles already on the road are holding on to their value well, Mr. Murguet said. That allows carmakers to offer attractive leasing terms because they know the cars will command a good resale price when the lease expires.European customers can lease a Renault Zoe, a two-door battery-powered subcompact, for 150 euros a month, or $170. “Even if the price of the cars is higher, the amount to finance from a customer’s perspective is not that much more,” Gilles Normand, senior vice president for electric vehicles at Renault, said in an interview in Geneva.And many buyers of electric cars won’t be individuals, but car-sharing services that buy them by the dozens and can spread the cost among more users. Those buyers tend to pay attention to the cost of a car over its life span rather than just the initial purchase price. Electric cars look better from that angle because they don’t require oil changes and electricity is cheaper per mile than gasoline.“The whole business case is changing for all of us,” Chris Delaney, president of Europe for tire maker Goodyear, said as he sat in a self-driving electric shuttle van on display in Geneva. (Goodyear is supplying specialized tires for the vehicle.)While electric vehicles account for only about 5 percent of Goodyear’s current sales, Mr. Delaney said, they account for 40 percent of new business from manufacturers — an indication of how fast demand is rising. Electric cars pose a design challenge for tiremakers as well. The cars’ high weight and fast acceleration require a more robust tire.The open question is whether any of the established carmakers, who still make most of their money from conventional vehicles, can generate buzz as effectively as Elon Musk, Tesla’s chief executive. Despite all of Tesla’s problems, Mr. Musk commands widespread respect in the industry for transforming the image of electric cars from nerdy science projects to desirable performance vehicles.So far, no other car manager has demonstrated Mr. Musk’s ability to make Tesla the center of the conversation, though not always in a good way.“Tesla did a lot to build up the market for electric cars,” Detlev von Platen, head of sales and marketing at Porsche, said. “We have a lot of respect for what they accomplished. They’re a reference for us.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike Isaac and Kate CongerSAN FRANCISCO — When Logan Green, chief executive of the ride-hailing service Lyft, was asked which tech leaders he admired, he pointed to three men who had built their companies ruthlessly: Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos.“A lot of other Silicon Valley companies are very scared to get their hands dirty with operations,” Mr. Green said in a 2017 interview with The New York Times, adding that he wanted to emulate the take-no-prisoners methods of Mr. Musk, Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Bezos.The problem for Mr. Green is that Lyft seems very nice. Its app is pink. Its cars were once adorned with fuzzy bubblegum-colored mustaches. Its drivers have a reputation for being friendly. And while Lyft has racked up more than one billion rides and become a strong No. 2 to Uber in the United States and Canada, it has not shaken off its cuddly image.Now Mr. Green, 35, must show that Lyft can be as assertive as an Amazon or a Facebook. He and Uber are locked in a race to take their companies public: Both filed papers in December to list on the stock market in the coming months. The offerings — the first for any ride-hailing firm — are likely to create a bonanza of riches in Silicon Valley and set the stage for listings of other highly valued tech start-ups, including Slack and Pinterest.The pressure is on Mr. Green to get the jump on Uber. (Both offerings have been stalled because the government shutdown, which ended Friday, prevented the Securities and Exchange Commission from reviewing their filings.) Lyft, which was last privately valued at $15.1 billion, is tiny compared with its rival and could be overshadowed if Uber debuts first. Uber could go public at a $120 billion valuation.For Mr. Green, this means he may have to give up some up his reserve and step into a more public role. While Lyft’s more gregarious president, John Zimmer, his No. 2 for the last 12 years, has frequently handled the public-facing side of the business, Mr. Green would rather speak at staff meetings than at tech conferences. Colleagues describe him as reserved.In a 2017 interview, Mr. Zimmer said Mr. Green was often misunderstood because of his quiet demeanor. “He is, like, extremely competitive,” Mr. Zimmer, now 34, said. “He has been an activist.”Lyft declined to make Mr. Green or Mr. Zimmer available for new interviews, citing the quiet period before an initial public offering. In a statement, the chief operating officer, Jon McNeill, described them as “cutthroat missionaries in service of creating positive change.”One of the tech leaders Mr. Green cited as inspiration, Mr. Musk, recommended against taking Lyft public.“The current system makes long-term value creation and product innovation difficult,” Mr. Musk, chief executive of Tesla, wrote in an email last week. “It insists on quarter-by-quarter results or punishes companies severely. This is particularly bad for companies that are high growth and are valued on potential, like Lyft (or Tesla).” (The S.E.C. fined Mr. Musk  last year for a tweet about taking Tesla private.)Mr. Green, who was born and raised in Culver City, Calif., graduated from the University of California, Santa Barbara, in 2006 with a degree in business economics. He then worked as the university’s sustainability coordinator, poring over alternatives to the gas-guzzling one-car-per-owner model. He was also on the board of the Santa Barbara Metropolitan Transit District, a position that gave him insight into municipal transportation.While visiting Zimbabwe on vacation during his 20s, Mr. Green said in the 2017 interview, he was inspired by Zimbabweans who had created makeshift services to fill every seat in car pools, saving passengers money and taking cars off the road.So in 2007, Mr. Green started Zimride in Santa Barbara, Calif., to provide long-distance car-pool rides to college students by matching them with other students who were driving.Mr. Zimmer, then working at Lehman Brothers, noticed posts about the start-up on Facebook from John Siegel, whom he had met while studying abroad and who had attended middle school with Mr. Green.“John didn’t have this technical or programming background, but he was this really impressive guy,” Mr. Siegel said. “I thought they could work together well.”Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer, who remained in New York, embarked on what Mr. Zimmer called a “long-distance relationship,” working together over Skype. In 2008, they moved to a two-bedroom apartment in Palo Alto, Calif. Neither drew a salary in the first three years of building Zimride, and each contract they sold to a college was celebrated with a trip to Ikea for Swedish meatballs, Mr. Zimmer said.In 2011, Zimride raised $6 million. But as a web service, it was caught flat-footed by the rise of smartphones and mobile apps. In 2012, Mr. Green decided to spin out of Zimride a mobile, peer-to-peer ride-hailing service, calling it Lyft.Instead of just pairing students for long-distance rides, Lyft would put drivers together with riders on public streets, in real time. Mr. Zimmer came up with the idea to emblazon the cars with pink mustaches; Mr. Green encouraged passengers to greet their drivers with a fist bump, to keep the community feeling of Zimride.At the time, ride-hailing wasn’t legal, and only licensed drivers could pick up passengers on public streets. Ann Miura-Ko, a partner at the venture capital firm Floodgate, who had invested in Zimride and sits on Lyft’s board, recalled that some board members had been doubtful about the change — but that Mr. Green had been confident.“Someone asked, ‘Will this really work?’ And he wasn’t just sure, he was positive,” she said.But Mr. Green didn’t reckon with one issue: Uber. At the time, Uber, run by Travis Kalanick, had positioned itself as a luxury service for the wealthy that used only licensed drivers, unlike Lyft’s lower-cost service. In 2013, Uber published a white paper outlining the risks of peer-to-peer ride-hailing, a way to elbow Lyft out of the market.“They were trying to get the whole category shut down behind the scenes,” Mr. Green said. “They didn’t want competition.”Uber officials met with California regulators about the matter. As for Mr. Green, several current and former regulators and lawmakers who oversee ride-sharing in California said they had never worked with him, because Mr. Zimmer was often the one who communicated with officials.“Truth be told, I’ve never heard of him,” said Aaron Peskin, a San Francisco supervisor who called for crackdowns on Uber and Lyft in their early years and negotiated a new per-ride tax with Uber and Lyft last summer.Mr. Kalanick eventually moved Uber into non-luxury ride-sharing with no licensed drivers, the same as Lyft. He and Mr. Green quickly became bitter rivals. When Mr. Green was set to introduce Lyft’s car-pooling product in 2014, Uber announced the same service first.That same year, Uber considered buying Lyft. Over dinner at Mr. Kalanick’s home in San Francisco, the Uber chief laughed at Mr. Zimmer’s high asking price. No deal was struck.An Uber spokesman declined to comment. A spokesman for Mr. Kalanick didn’t return a request for comment.While Mr. Kalanick went on to raise billions of dollars in funding for Uber, Mr. Green relied on Mr. Zimmer’s Wall Street knowledge and showman personality to garner investments from venture capitalists and others. In total, Lyft has raised close to $5.1 billion, compared with Uber’s roughly $14 billion in equity.In 2017, Mr. Kalanick was ousted from Uber after a series of scandals. Mr. Green seized the moment, billing Lyft as a kinder, gentler network. Ridership surged, with Lyft taking a share of up to 35 percent in some American cities.More recently, Lyft has ventured into self-driving cars, offering autonomous rides in Las Vegas. It also acquired Motivate, the largest bike-share operator in the United States, giving Lyft a dominant position in an emerging transportation market.In the 2017 interview, Mr. Green said he was far from done.“As an entrepreneur, you always kind of want what you’re pitching to sound somewhat off the wall,” he said. “You’re trying to pitch the future that doesn’t exist, and you want it to be — it needs to be — a little bit of a stretch.”Follow Mike Isaac and Kate Conger on Twitter: @mikeisaac and @kateconger.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byMounting delays to the Space Launch System, primarily built by Boeing, are leading the agency to consider alternative forms of transport.By Kenneth ChangStruggling to get its new giant rocket ready in time for a scheduled launch next year, NASA might just leave it on the ground and turn to commercial alternatives.“NASA has a history of not meeting launch dates,” said Jim Bridenstine, NASA’s administrator, at a Senate committee hearing on Wednesday, “and I’m trying to change that.”NASA plans to send its Orion capsule, designed to carry astronauts on deep space missions, on a crewless test trip around the moon next year. But the schedule for completing the rocket that is to carry Orion — known as the Space Launch System — has slipped repeatedly despite NASA’s spending more than $10 billion on the program so far. Last year, in announcing the latest delay, NASA said that the mission was penciled in for the end of 2019 but even then conceded that June 2020 was a more realistic target date.[Sign up to get reminders for space and astronomy events on your calendar.]In October, NASA’s inspector general issued a report that was sharply critical of Boeing, the rocket’s prime contractor. “Cost increases and schedule delays of core stage development can be traced largely to management, technical, and infrastructure issues driven by Boeing’s poor performance,” the report said. “For example, Boeing officials have consistently underestimated the scope of the work to be performed and thus the size and skills of the work force required.”On Wednesday, Mr. Bridenstine said that last week it had become clear that the rocket would probably not be ready even by June 2020. He said he had directed managers to explore whether there would be another way to launch.“The goal is to get back on track,” Mr. Bridenstine said. He said the space agency would make a decision “in the next couple of weeks,” and that it might require additional money from Congress.The largest rockets currently built by private companies are smaller than the Space Launch System, so if NASA decides on this approach, the payload for the mission would need to be split between two rockets. The Orion capsule and its service module, a component built by the European Space Agency to provide power and propulsion, would ride to orbit on one rocket. A fueled rocket stage for propelling Orion to the moon would go up separately. The two pieces would then rendezvous and dock in orbit before heading to the moon. Mr. Bridenstine noted that Orion currently lacks the ability to dock with another spacecraft in orbit. “Between now and June of 2020, we would have to make that a reality,” Mr. Bridenstine said. Senator Roger Wicker, Republican of Mississippi and chairman of the Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation, noted: “This is 2019.” A commercially launched mission would allow extended testing of Orion and the service module, one of the main goals, but it would push the first flight of the Space Launch System further into the future.Mr. Bridenstine did not name which commercial rockets might be used, but the two that are powerful enough are the Delta 4 Heavy from the United Launch Alliance, a joint venture between Boeing and Lockheed Martin, and the Falcon Heavy from SpaceX, the rocket company founded by Elon Musk.The Orion has been launched once already on top of a Delta 4 Heavy, in 2014, for a crewless test flight, but that did not go to the moon. The Falcon Heavy has only flown on its February 2018 test launch.At the hearing, Mr. Bridenstine continued to describe the big NASA rocket as a core component of the space agency’s plans. But if the commercial approach works for the test flight, some space watchers wonder why the same strategy would not work for missions carrying astronauts.NASA may move away from the Space Launch System and use less expensive commercial rockets for other missions as well, including for pieces of the Lunar Gateway, a planned outpost in orbit around the moon, and the launching of the Europa Clipper, a robotic mission to study one of Jupiter’s moons.In its budget proposal for fiscal year 2020, the Trump administration is also proposing the delay of an upgrade to the second stage of the Space Launch System that Boeing is working on. That is not needed for the early missions but will enable the transport of heavier payloads to space.Kenneth Chang has been at The Times since 2000, writing about physics, geology, chemistry, and the planets. Before becoming a science writer, he was a graduate student whose research involved the control of chaos.  @kchangnyt Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Jamie CondliffeHi. I’m Jamie Condliffe. Greetings from London. Here’s a look at the week’s tech news.There is little as fashionable in 2019 as the desire to curb Big Tech’s power. But knowing how far regulators should go in putting limits on Silicon Valley’s largest companies isn’t straightforward.At one extreme, there are calls to break up Big Tech.  Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines during the week when she called for just that. Ms. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, argued that companies shouldn’t offer their own products on platforms they controlled (like Apple’s selling apps on its App Store — something Spotify called out to European regulators on Wednesday). She also said she would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions, such as Facebook’s takeovers of Instagram and WhatsApp.Her pitch isn’t perfect, as The New York Times’s Kevin Roose pointed out — it’s too generic, misses easy wins and overlooks some big issues. But it is a bold, inspiring rally cry for Big Tech’s biggest critics.At the other end of the spectrum: tech companies. Ideally, the likes of Facebook and Google would love to perpetually operate in the lightly regulated world that helped them grow so quickly. But even Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, acknowledged that it was “inevitable that there will be some regulation” when he testified to the House Energy and Commerce Committee in April.There’s plenty of room between those extremes. Take, for example, a report published Wednesday by the British government, which called for an overhaul of antitrust policies for Big Tech. Its main proposal: that a new regulator identify companies with “strategic market status,” then block some activities — such as promoting their own products or services in search results over those belonging to competitors (hello, Google!).That, the report’s authors say, is a “more pro-business and pro-consumer solution” than “changing antitrust law to drive breakup” of businesses.So who’s right? Mr. Zuckerberg, at least when he says regulatory intervention is inevitable. There’s strong bipartisan support for such regulation. As for where a line should be drawn, that’s harder to say.Breaking up big companies isn’t easy: It’s expensive and takes a long time. And it doesn’t always go to plan. The last notable attempt to do so, when a judge ruled two decades ago that Microsoft be cleaved for having violated antitrust law, was overturned on appeal. So Ms. Warren could have her work cut out for her.But it may ultimately become a question of balancing ambition with need. Is it better to gamble on breaking up big companies, or guarantee that new rules curb some of their behavior? That’s something that lawmakers are going to have to wrestle with.When OpenAI was founded three years ago, it had a huge goal: to build artificial intelligence software that was as capable as the human brain. Its founders said that because it was a nonprofit with noble ambitions — it had $1 billion in funding from backers to pay its way — the public could trust it to build that so-called general artificial intelligence.Only, $1 billion doesn’t go far with goals like that. Huge computing resources and big salaries to attract talent burn through cash. Actually, it turns out, some profits might be useful.So, Wired reported, Open AI announced that it was changing its business model. To keep up with Facebook and Google, it created a OpenAI L.P., a company that can take money from investors that need to return a profit, like venture funds. That will make it easier to raise funds. Down the line, it might monetize some of the technology it develops. But the company decided to cap the returns that investors will see — to $100 for every dollar invested.One way to think of that figure is that OpenAI deems a 100-times return to be an ethical margin on building a general A.I. — enough to make it a feasible endeavor, but not so much as to tar it with the Big Tech brush. That reasoning clearly holds if you inhabit Silicon Valley. But it will be interesting to see if that profit cap is enough to put everyone at ease.On March 12, 1989, Tim Berners-Lee proposed an idea for linking digital files that his boss, Mike Sendall, called “vague but exciting.” It ultimately became the World Wide Web, and 30 years later we’re left with much to love — and hate — about its existence.At an event at London’s Science Museum on Tuesday to mark the web’s passage into its fourth decade, Mr. Berners-Lee was asked what it might look like in another 30 years. Here’s what he said:■ “It’s not, I think, for us to try and guess.”■ “Look at what’s happened over the last 30 years. The web has changed really dramatically, and a lot of that we couldn’t have predicted.”■ “What we can do is we can say what web we want.”■ “We want a web which is open. We want a web which is royalty-free. We want a web which is discrimination-free.”Worthy goals. And in an article he wrote this past week, Mr. Berners-Lee laid out steps that may be required to ensure they happen:■ “Governments must translate laws and regulations for the digital age. They must ensure markets remain competitive, innovative and open.”■ “Companies must do more to ensure their pursuit of short-term profit is not at the expense of human rights, democracy, scientific fact or public safety.”■ “Platforms and products must be designed with privacy, diversity and security in mind. “■ “And most important of all, citizens must hold companies and governments accountable.”Thirty years on, Mr. Sendall’s analysis might apply equally well to this proposal, too.Elon Musk really dislikes whistle-blowers. According to Businessweek, Mr. Musk, the Tesla chief executive, set out to destroy one employee who leaked details about raw materials wastage at the company.How does Google pay off executives accused of misconduct? Handsomely: Two shared a total of $135 million, according to details that emerged from a lawsuit during the week.Who will fund the next wave of tech start-ups? That’ll be the millionaires who are created when companies like Airbnb and Uber go public.You should care about TikTok. You might never use it, but it could reshape social media as you know it.Scientists dropped a smartphone into a blender. Because that, apparently, is the best way to work out how much cobalt, gold and other substances are in there.How to disappear (almost) completely: A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps to going dark while staying online.Silicon Valley wants to build a monument. To Silicon Valley, obviously.Jamie Condliffe is editor of the DealBook newsletter. He also writes the weekly Bits newsletter. Follow him on Twitter here: @jme_c.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Lela MooreIt’s embarrassing to err so publicly, and having to correct any of our journalism is regrettable. But some of the corrections we ran in 2018 not only set the record straight. They also did so while affording our readers the pleasure of schadenfreude at our expense. Now that we have closed out 2018, here’s a look back at seven of our most surprising — and comical — corrections of the year.This one rendered one Times editor and lots of readers nearly speechless on Twitter. Oh  https://t.co/AzIzqy9Fz3 pic.twitter.com/fiKM7SxmEzIt corrected the already startling Science article “Why Are Some Crows Committing Acts of Necrophilia?”What about the time we forgot to remove our “Millennials to Snake People” browser extension before cutting and pasting? Don’t you hate it when that happens?No one sets out to write an article that requires a formal correction. Unfortunately, mistakes happen. We published more than 4,100 corrections on digital articles in 2018. We estimate that hundreds more ran on videos, podcasts and graphics features. Other corrections were published only in print.For perspective: The Times published more than 55,000 articles in 2018, and more than 50 million words.Many of our mistakes are typos that don’t require formal corrections. We mixed metaphors and wrote of rankled feathers when we meant ruffled ones. We talked of honing in on issues when we meant homing in. (Phil Corbett, our associate managing editor for standards, has the best advice for avoiding this one: “Think pigeons, not knives.”) Errors like these are remedied as quickly as possible, usually without a formal correction appended.But factual errors necessitate a formal fix, and it is these corrections to which our readers point as a barometer of our transparency and our willingness to admit our mistakes. Here, for example, we corrected our error on a tweet about Elon Musk, Tesla’s founder and chief executive.In an article about Vespas not depreciating in value, we ran a photo misidentifying the scooters. Oops. In a Cooking article about salmon with harissa, we misstated one of the main ingredients of the spicy sauce. A New York Times correction follows a distinct pattern: First we tell you the type of error we committed. Then we state the fact — minus the inaccuracy — as clearly as possible.Sometimes numbers get the best of us. Here we wildly understated the odds of winning the Powerball. Sometimes we type too fast and end up saying something completely different than we intended. Rage, wage — what a difference a letter makes!Our New Year’s resolution is to keep delivering great journalism. Here’s hoping we make fewer errors in the process. Rogene Jacquette contributed reporting. Correction: An earlier version of this article misstated the error we made in calculating the odds of winning the Powerball. We understated — not overstated — them. The article also misstated Phil Corbett’s title. He is the associate managing editor for standards, not the assistant managing editor for standards. (Did we mention how embarrassing it is to err so publicly? Onward.)A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.Lela Moore is an audience writer for the Reader Center. She covers reader reaction to breaking news and popular articles on topics ranging from politics to business to sports. She also moderates the New York Times Reader Center Group on Facebook.  @runlelarun • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, the latest news on Boeing’s plane troubles, and more Brexit angst.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Here’s your roundup of the top news in business and tech, plus all you need to know for the week ahead. Even if your March Madness bracket was a flop, at least you can feel good about your news I.Q.MARCH 31-APRIL 6Boeing’s grounded fleet of 737 Max jets probably won’t be back in the air anytime soon. A preliminary report on what caused one of the aircraft to crash in Ethiopia last month determined that the pilots followed all of Boeing’s safety protocols. While investigators stopped short of blaming the company for the plane crash, the report does put more pressure on the manufacturer and aviation authorities to figure out what happened — and to make sure it won’t again. Boeing has already lost one order of its 737 planes from Indonesia’s national airline, and the longer it takes to get the jets cleared for flight, the more customers (and money) it stands to lose. President Trump said on Thursday that he planned to give Mexico a “one-year warning” to stop drug smuggling and illegal immigration or he’ll close the southern border. This was a big step back from a threat he had made the week before, when he said he’d close the border in the next few days. His initial statement was followed by widespread panic. A border closing would seriously harm the American economy, halting the daily flow of $1.7 billion of goods and services between the two countries. This would cause food shortages (where would we get our avocados?) and price spikes. It would also hurt the 500,000 legal workers, students, shoppers and tourists who cross the border each day. If you’re getting tired of Facebook’s user data — particularly your own — showing up in places it shouldn’t, you’re in good company. A cybersecurity firm reported this past week that it had stumbled upon a huge cache of Facebook user information on one of Amazon’s cloud computing servers. The information included millions of Facebook users’ passwords, comments, and account names, and all of it could be downloaded by anyone who found it online. The database was closed after Facebook learned about its contents, but considering the rash of similar cases in the past year, this won’t be the last breach of its kind. APRIL 7-13Mr. Trump escalated his sniping at the Federal Reserve on Friday, calling on the organization to cut interest rates and use other means to boost economic growth. He also continued to accuse the Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, of throwing water on the economy by raising interest rates last year. It’s unusual for a president to so openly attempt to exert influence over the central bank, but Mr. Trump is taking his efforts a step further by announcing plans to nominate two of his longtime supporters for seats on the Fed’s board. One is his “friend,” the former pizza executive and 2012 presidential hopeful Herman Cain, and the other is Stephen Moore, a conservative economist and adviser to Mr. Trump. Mr. Powell will surely be asked about all of this on Wednesday, after the Fed releases the minutes of its March meeting. European Union leaders will hold a last-minute summit on Wednesday to discuss the fate of Brexit, which has now dragged on past the point of absurdity. Britain is now slated to withdraw from the bloc on April 12 with or without a concrete plan, unless Prime Minister Theresa May can win Parliament’s agreement for another deadline extension. There has been much hand-wringing over the possibility of a no-deal Brexit, which could be disastrous for the British economy as well as its trade partners. To prepare, many businesses have staged their own reverse Brexit, moving operations elsewhere and holding off on investing in British companies. It’s a lose-lose for Britain, and prolonging the process isn’t likely to improve matters. A trade deal with China may finally be nigh. But then again, who really knows? On Thursday, Mr. Trump gathered with the Chinese delegation, which was in Washington for the umpteenth round of negotiations, to say that he’s anticipating an “epic” trade agreement in about four weeks. He was also expected to announce a presidential summit with Xi Jinping of China, presumably to sign that deal, but he stopped short of doing so. “If we have a deal, then we’ll have a summit,” Mr. Trump said. He is under mounting pressure to make good on the lofty promises he made to American businesses about an agreement, but the clock is ticking on the economic damage that trade tensions are wreaking around the world. Jeff and Mackenzie Bezos have finalized the details of their divorce. He will keep 75 percent of their joint shares in Amazon, leaving her with a $36 billion stake — which makes her one of the richest women in the world. Speaking of wealthy people, Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, is still battling with the Securities and Exchange Commission over his ill-advised (and unadvised) tweets about his company. A New York judge gave both parties two weeks to sort out their differences, and recommended that they put on their “reasonableness pants” to do so — a tall order, in this case.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(If you don’t get California Today by email, here’s the sign-up.)Yesterday, my colleagues Thomas Fuller, Jennifer Medina and Conor Dougherty took a hard look at the future of America’s  infrastructure projects, like California’s high-speed rail. More specifically: Are projects that big even possible anymore, given the cost and regulation? In California, that regulation has reached notoriously byzantine heights and is epitomized in four letters: C.E.Q.A. Conor explains how that happened:The rapidly escalating cost of California’s high-speed rail project has led to a loss of political support and cast a cloud over its prospects, raising big questions about America’s ability to take on big projects as it once did. The train’s problems also highlight a paradox here and across the nation: It’s often hardest to build in the populated areas where investment is needed most.For those trying to carry out such projects in California, nothing is more daunting than the California Environmental Quality Act, or C.E.Q.A. Signed by Gov. Ronald Reagan in 1970, the statute has become a widely used legal tool for delaying or stopping public-works projects from the massive to the micro — even, until recently, those designating bike lanes. And those cases can pit environmental objections against environmental goals.It is widely agreed in California that new housing and infrastructure should be built in and around population centers, to curb sprawl, to cut down on driving, and to help the state meet its ambitious goals to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. But lawsuits filed under the environmental quality act have often taken aim at just such projects.According to a 2015 study, about 80 percent of the environmental lawsuits filed in California over a three-year period were targeted at “infill” developments in already populated areas. Housing and infrastructure projects accounted for more than half. The complaints can be brought on any number of environmental grounds, like the dust and noise generated or the impact on views.Several years ago a proposal to add passenger trains to a cargo rail line already in use was challenged on the grounds that it would lead to additional squealing and grease drippage. In the case of the high-speed rail project, designed to link the Central Valley with the Bay Area and Los Angeles, a C.E.Q.A. lawsuit by the Silicon Valley enclave of Atherton challenged whether the rail authority had adequately studied the engineering of the train’s route.That case ultimately failed, but even fighting litigation adds to a project’s cost and can often delay it. The rail project has been challenged on other legal grounds as well, including its adherence to the terms of a bond issue financing it.Increased investment in roads, bridges and power plants has won support across party lines. But as California’s experience illustrates, talk about big projects is easy. Routing them around legal land mines is hard.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• My colleague Lisa Lerer talked to Gov. Gavin Newsom about his relationship with President Trump for the On Politics newsletter. The takeaway? Mr. Newsom can talk tough, but he still has to figure out how to work with the administration. [The New York Times]• What do plans to scale back high-speed rail mean for Kern County and for Bakersfield’s economic development plans? Reactions have been mixed among local stakeholders and lawmakers who represent the southern Central Valley. Here’s an in-depth conversation. [KGET]• Jeff Adachi, the only elected public defender in the state and a well-known criminal justice advocate in San Francisco, died suddenly last week. Here are some of his highest-profile fights, which span decades. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• You’re not just getting more sensitive — it’s actually been the coldest February in Los Angeles since 1962. [The National Weather Service]• Still, in general, the climate is getting warmer. Which means that even indoor workplaces will have to start figuring out ways to keep employees cool. [KQED]• It’s supposed to rain a lot again in the Bay Area. The Atmospheric River is back. [The Mercury News]• After a San Francisco private equity firm acquired Mindbody, the fitness class booking platform based in San Luis Obispo, for $1.9 billion on Christmas Eve, its chief executive went silent about whether the company would move. Finally, he put the speculation to rest — for now. “We’re deeply committed to the community,” he said recently. [The San Luis Obispo Tribune]• The Securities and Exchange Commission wants Elon Musk to be held in contempt of court for a tweet in which the agency said Mr. Musk published “erroneous” information about Tesla’s production goals. [The New York Times]• A (maybe) mouthed message from Spike Lee to Samuel L. Jackson at the Oscars shined an unwanted spotlight on the practice of tanking in the N.B.A., which is when teams — like, say, Mr. Lee’s beloved Knicks — are bad on purpose so they can get a better spot in the draft. [The New York Times]• Frank Gehry, who designed Los Angeles’s iconic Walt Disney Concert Hall, is turning 90. He talks about continuing to work at a breakneck pace. “The office is just busy, and we’re all struggling to keep up with it.” [The Los Angeles Times]After the glitz of the Academy Awards, there are usually some figures from the awards season that stick with you.I hope — as do, it seems, a lot of other people who saw “Roma” — that Yalitza Aparicio is one of them.She’s the star of Alfonso Cuarón’s film revisiting the Mexico City of his childhood through the lens of the domestic worker who raised him. And while Ms. Aparicio is worshiped in her Oaxacan hometown, her status as a barrier-breaking woman of Indigenous descent from Mexico has won her fans in the U.S., and in California especially.But Ms. Aparicio, even after being nominated for an Oscar, has said she’s not sure she’ll continue acting. Either way, she said, she wants to be a force for positive change — not an exception.“I realized that film can educate people of all ages, in a far-reaching way,” she said.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The special counsel, Robert Mueller, did not find evidence that President Trump coordinated with Russia to influence the 2016 election, Attorney General William Barr said yesterday. But the White House still faces legal challenges.Mr. Trump claimed victory from the report, which concluded Mr. Mueller’s two-year investigation into the Russia issue. Especially comforting to the president: Mr. Mueller did not recommend additional indictments of his inner circle.The president was not found to have obstructed justice, Mr. Barr added, saying that the special counsel did not find enough evidence. But the report did not exonerate Mr. Trump on this accusation, as Mr. Mueller did not provide a verdict either way.Mr. Trump derided the inquiry as an “illegal takedown that failed,” and demanded that those responsible for it face additional scrutiny. That triumphalism ran counter to advice from aides.But the White House isn’t in the clear yet. Congressional Democrats pledged to continue pursuing investigations into Trump and his allies. And prosecutors in New York City are still investigating an array of issues that touch on Mr. Trump’s business and political dealings.The markets may get a small boost from the end of the investigation, according to analysts who spoke to CNBC.China’s top economic policymakers have promised more market-based competition and international trade, in the latest sign that the country is eager to end its trade war with the U.S., Keith Bradsher of the NYT writes.The promises being made were significant. Officials at the China Development Forum, the country’s premier annual economic policy conference, spoke of increasing imports, a desire for more foreign investment and a willingness to allow foreign financial firms to own larger stakes in their Chinese competitors.They may sound familiar, however. “Chinese officials have said for years that they were ready to allow foreign competitors to enter their market on a more equal footing,” Mr. Bradsher writes. “The promises made over the weekend in many cases repeated pledges that have been made before.”But China now has other reasons to embrace openness. “In addition to a trade war that is hitting the country’s exporters, China’s economy has also been hurt by private sector business leaders who have become increasingly cautious in recent months about making new investments,” Mr. Bradsher adds.The promises will most likely feature in trade talks. American and Chinese officials are scheduled to hold trade talks in Beijing in the coming days, and another round of talks in Washington the following week.The airplane maker is taking more steps to convince the authorities and customers that fixes for its 737 Max 8 jets — two of which have crashed in recent months — are near.It tested a software update  for the Max 8 aircraft with pilots from five airlines over the weekend, the NYT reports. Using flight simulators, the pilots were able to safely land planes suffering from problems believed to have brought down Lion Air Flight 610 last year.And the company outlined other software fixes that are meant to eliminate flaws in an automated piloting program at the heart of the crashes. Boeing also said that it would now make two previously optional safety features on the planes free of charge.But Boeing is facing heat from Congress over the safety-certification process that cleared the Max 8 for flight. Lawmakers are concerned about how much responsibility the company held for certifying the safety of its own planes.More Boeing news: How the company rushed to roll out the 737 Max to catch up with Airbus. Why the crashes highlight the challenges of adding modern software to older technology. And why JPMorgan Chase economists worry about broader fallout from Boeing’s problems.The yield curve is essentially the difference between interest rates on short-term government bonds and long-term government bonds. Since 1960, every time that it has inverted — when long-term rates were lower than short-term rates — a recession has followed.It happened on Friday.More on that from Matt Phillips of the NYT:• “The yield on the 10-year Treasury note tumbled to 2.44 percent Friday, its lowest level since January 2018. That was just below the 2.45 percent yield on three-month Treasury bills.”• “Research from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco has cited the yield difference between three-month Treasury bills and 10-year Treasury notes — which inverted Friday — as the most reliable predictor of recession risk.”• “On Friday, the S&P 500 fell 1.9 percent, as stock market investors grew concerned about the outlook for economic growth. It was the second-worst drop for the market this year.”Don’t hyperventilate. Some parts of the yield curve have not yet inverted, and experts say the inversion doesn’t necessarily predict economic collapse. “A model is just a model,” Campbell Harvey, a Duke University finance professor, told the NYT. “It’s not an oracle. It helps us forecast the future, but it might at any point fail.”With smartphone sales stagnating, Apple is making a push to make money from services. And today, we find out what that looks like, as the company makes a series of announcements about its moves into the world of media. Here’s what to expect:• Video streaming. According to the WSJ, Apple has “used a $1 billion budget to buy dozens of original TV shows in hopes it can land a breakout hit,” and plans to announce tie-ups to offer $9.99 subscriptions for channels like HBO and Showtime. Original content would reportedly “be delivered in a new TV app that staff have been calling a Netflix killer,” and also require a subscription.• News. The company’s new news-subscription service is expected to cost $9.99 a month and provide “access to more than 200 magazines — including Bon Appétit, People and Glamour — as well as newspapers,” according to the WSJ.• And maybe games? Bloomberg suggests that the company might even announce “a premium games subscription for its App Store.” This wouldn’t be the cloud gaming of the kind announced by Google last week, but bundles of games for the iPhone and iPad.You can watch the event here, starting at 1 p.m. Eastern.The British prime minister is struggling for control and respect as she tries again to gain Parliament’s support for her Brexit deal this week.Her week starts with a tense cabinet meeting, with her Conservative Party in “uproar after ministers discussed replacing her as leader just weeks before the Brexit deadline,” according to the FT.Lawmakers will then try to undermine her control of Brexit, when they vote later today on a plan “to take control of the legislative agenda for a single day,” Bloomberg explains. “This would allow lawmakers to express support for different options ranging from a second referendum to a customs union with the E.U. and even canceling Brexit.”She’s still hawking her Brexit deal. But meetings over the weekend with high-profile Euroskeptic lawmakers, including Boris Johnson and Jacob Rees-Mogg, failed to gain their backing. That means she still lacks the support needed to win a third vote on her proposal.All this comes against the backdrop of public demand for a second referendum on Brexit. On Saturday, an estimated 1 million people marched through London to demand a new vote on leaving the E.U.As the S.E.C. and Elon Musk continue to fight in court over his tweeting, the Tesla C.E.O. fired back on Friday. His latest argument: the agency is incorrectly interpreting a settlement agreement between the two.Mr. Musk’s insists his tweet review process is O.K. In his view, he is supposed to only run tweets containing material information about Tesla by an in-house lawyer — and he is free to determine what qualifies. An earlier draft of the settlement, offered by the S.E.C., would have required him to run all public statements by a lawyer. He rejected that proposal.He also says the tweet that drew the ire of the S.E.C. wasn’t controversial. His comment about Tesla production forecasts, he argues, contained information that had previously been made public, and was made after stock markets closed for the day. But the S.E.C. says that’s an after-the-fact rationalization.It’s up to a judge to decide whether Mr. Musk violated the settlement and should be held in contempt. The S.E.C. has declined to ask for a hearing on the matter, The Verge reports, since it believes it has already made its case.Silicon Valley’s business model pretty much relies on pervasive screens being a good thing. But Big Tech’s most successful executives increasingly spend lots of money to shelter themselves from the digital reality they helped create, Nellie Bowles of the NYT reports, potentially creating a new class divide.• At first, tech products like Facebook and Gmail were democratic: They were the same no matter who you were, and they were free. Companies extolled the value of widespread laptop use in schools, arguing that they were preparing kids for the future.• But now schools that are short of cash, like those in Kansas, focus on screens, not human interaction. And low-income elderly patients rely on digital avatars to keep them company.• Meanwhile, Ms. Bowles writes, “As wealthy kids are growing up with less screen time, poor kids are growing up with more. How comfortable someone is with human engagement could become a new class marker.”• “The wealthy can afford to opt out of having their data and their attention sold as a product. The poor and middle class don’t have the same kind of resources to make that happen.”The Democratic senators Elizabeth Warren and Sherrod Brown called on banking regulators to oust Tim Sloan as Wells Fargo’s C.E.O.President Trump plans to nominate Stephen Moore, an economic adviser and frequent critic of the Fed, as a governor of the central bank. (Here’s why he might be a poor choice.)Citigroup fired eight traders in Hong Kong for reportedly misleading clients.Deals• Uber is reportedly set to buy Careem, a Middle Eastern competitor, for about $3.1 billion this week. (Bloomberg)• Pinterest’s I.P.O. filing showed that it’s a rare Silicon Valley unicorn — one that isn’t bleeding money. (NYT)• ICYMI: Everything you need to know about the Lyft I.P.O. (DealBook)• Naspers, the South African internet giant, plans to spin off its stake in Tencent and other international holdings into a new publicly held company. (Bloomberg)• The telecom equipment maker Avaya is reportedly considering a $5 billion takeover offer from a private equity firm. (Reuters)Politics and policy• How “Medicare for all” would disrupt the entire health care industry. (NYT)• House Democrats like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez plan to pressure banks into taking stands on issues like gun violence and climate change. (Politico)• Energy executives celebrated the appointment of one of their allies to the No. 2 spot at the Interior Department, according to a recording of a 2017 industry meeting. (Politico)Tech• Microsoft’s president, Brad Smith, says that in the wake of the Christchurch shooting it’s time to consider Big Tech’s legal responsibilities. (Microsoft)• Volvo’s C.E.O. says that rolling out autonomous vehicles prematurely could “kill a technology that might be the best lifesaver in the history of the car.” Also: Waymo’s autonomous taxi fleet has reportedly suffered plenty of close calls and frequent rider complaints. (FT, Information)• Mike Lynch, the former C.E.O. of the British software company Autonomy, faces new criminal charges of wire fraud, securities fraud and conspiracy. (Bloomberg)• The European Commission is expected to pursue a plan to manage the risk of using Huawei telecom hardware, defying calls from the U.S. to simply not use it. (FT)• Banks are using A.I. to spot rogue traders before they even act. (FT)Best of the rest• Silicon Valley venture capitalists are taking victory laps as unicorns like Lyft and Uber go public. (NYT)• Tyson has recalled 69,000 pounds of chicken strips after metal fragments were found in them. (NYT)• Sweden is expected to force its banks to continue offering customers cash transactions. (FT)• The O.E.C.D. recently tried to quantify the global counterfeiting industry. Its conclusion: The business represented as much as 3.3 percent of global trade in 2016. (Axios)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe shift away from private vehicles will happen faster than we think. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. I will die before I buy another car.I don’t say that because I am particularly old or sick, but because I am at the front end of one of the next major secular trends in tech. Owning a car will soon be like owning a horse — a quaint hobby, an interesting rarity and a cool thing to take out for a spin on the weekend.Before you object, let me be clear: I will drive in cars until I die. But the concept of actually purchasing, maintaining, insuring and garaging an automobile in the next few decades?Finished. [Kara Swisher answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]This could be the most important shift since the Cambrian explosion of the smartphone. Car-sharing continues to increase (Uber and Lyft are set to go public this year), new innovations emerge all the time (Scooters! Vertical-take-off-and-landing vehicles!) and all manner of autonomous technologies are inevitable (Elon Musk, whatever you think of him or the prospects of Tesla, is 100 percent directionally correct). Private car ownership declined globally last year, and it is a trend that I believe is going to accelerate faster than people think.Not everyone agrees. After an initial rush of hype and hope, there was a backlash against the idea that autonomous and shared cars would soon take over. But I am pretty good at this guessing game. In 1998, as one of the first Internet-focused reporters for The Wall Street Journal, I wrote a piece titled “I Cut the Cord” about giving up my land line and going all mobile. That was well before “feature” phones — as the first dumber versions of smartphones were called — and almost a decade before the iPhone. There was not much out there for the general population. Nonetheless, I “snipped my copper umbilical cord” and predicted that everyone else would do the same, and sooner than they thought.I did not find it easy, as I noted then: “My own all-cellular journey is strewn with technical glitches and innumerable lost connections, pricey millisecond charges that make using a cellphone seem like a bad addiction, and vague worries that perhaps too much cellphone exposure actually does cause brain tumors.”But it was time. Absent the brain tumors, this was the thought that hit me recently when my clutch died on a hill in San Francisco. After spending my life buying cars, I will never buy another after I sell my last, a manual Ford Fiesta Turbo named Frank.Since I first started driving I have named my cars: Cecil the Honda Civic, Jeanette the mighty blue Volkswagen Bug, Roger the Volkswagen Rabbit, Jerry the Jeep Wrangler, John the Jeep Cherokee, Alice the Honda Minivan, Sally the Subaru Outback, Abner the Mazda 3, Cindy the Mazda 5 and Frank. Why wouldn’t I name them, since they were an integral part of my life from my teens to my single days to motherhood?Many people feel this kind of bond with their cars. They represent so many major life moments (prom!) and individual tropes (freedom!) that it is difficult to imagine giving them up.But it will be easier than you’d think for a number of reasons that are increasing in speed and velocity, if you will excuse the pun. Consider how swiftly people moved from physical maps to map apps, from snail mail to email, from prime time TV to watching on demand. What had been long-held practices were quickly replaced by digital tools that made things easier, more convenient and simply better. Some of the shifts have been slower to develop, but then accelerated quickly, like what is now occurring in retail with online shopping and quick delivery pioneered by Amazon.Simply put, everything that can be digitized will be digitized.That is harder to envision with the heavy hunk of metal and fiberglass that is a car, but it is not hard to see the steps. You start using car-sharing services, you don’t use your car as often, you realize as these services proliferate that you actually don’t need to own a car at all.It’s also a small step toward a more carbon-free life, although my frequent cross-country flights pretty much make me a carbon criminal for life. (My fingers are crossed for not only an electric car, but an electric plane or even carbon-free jet fuel.)It’s obviously an easier decision if you live near a major metropolitan area, like I do, where the alternatives — cars and then car pools and then bikes and now scooters — are myriad. (Why, by the way, this is a revolution led by private companies instead of public transportation is an important topic for another day.) In other countries, often with denser populations, there are even more ideas bubbling up, from auto-rickshaws and motorbike taxis to new bus services. Obviously, the biggest change will be the advent of truly autonomous vehicles, which are still years or even decades in the future. But in the meantime I am going to lean into this future all I can, and will chronicle the efforts over the next year, its costs and its benefits and how I get there. Or not.Will I walk more? Take more buses or trains? How much will I use short-term car rental services? Will my kids freak out when I decline to be their constant chauffeur? It begins with the off-loading of Frank the Fiesta, so I have no excuse to use it at all. Anyone interested in a car with a loose clutch?The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Alyson Krueger[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The Explorers Club is exactly what it sounds like: a members-only institution, established more than a century ago, and dedicated to scientific inquiry. Many of those admitted — there are currently 3,500 members — have touched upon uncharted territories, and all are active in the field of science research. Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay were part of the club, as was Thor Heyerdahl. Recently, Elon Musk joined.For 115 years, members have gathered annually for a weekend of science and a black-tie dinner at the New York headquarters, on the Upper East Side. The most recent event, held on March 16, featured 10 astronauts who were part of the Apollo program and an auction where attendees could bid on joining a world-renowned paleontologist on a dinosaur fossil dig.The weekend of science also introduced something new: The club let its youngest members, some still undergraduates in college, present their initiatives.There was Alex Borowicz, a Ph.D. candidate at Stony Brook University, who uses high-resolution satellite imagery and artificial intelligence to track whales. “It used to be that people had to go on a boat with binoculars to do that,” he said, during his presentation. “I do it from my couch.”Another young presenter was Stephen Daire, a graduate student at the University of Southern California. He had built robots able to explore caves so humans don’t have to. His robot even builds itself a charging station before it starts its work so it can take care of its own needs later.For generations, exploration meant going to faraway lands and bringing back significant artifacts. The club is filled with items from these journeys: tusks from a rare elephant species and flags that flew on the moon. A giant taxidermy polar bear hovers over the second floor.But it is clear that the newer members are different kinds of pioneers. Many of them are using technology, in addition to safari gear and compasses, to uncover the world’s greatest secrets. This has resulted in some growing pains at the club, as younger and older members struggle to expand the definition of exploration in 2019.“For the older folks, maybe they were the first person somewhere because the world hadn’t been explored that much, and they had that opportunity,” said Aleksandr Rikhterman, 26, a Brooklyn-based documentary filmmaker. “We can’t do that so we have to look at exploring differently. We can use new tools to take a closer look at the environments that have already been found.”The afternoon of presentations showcasing new technologies was the first step.To join the club with full voting rights, two other members must nominate you, and annual fees can cost hundreds of dollars. But there is also a way to as a join as a student member, for which the initiation fee is waived, with just one referral.That said, being a young member in the Explorers Club can sometimes be challenging to navigate. Adam Gordon, 32, who works in human rights law at N.Y.U., said he remembered when he first got his membership and immediately went to the members-only section of the website. “It was a ghost town,” he said. “There was nothing on it.”Going to events in person was intimidating for Mr. Gordon, too. “Members tend to be in their 50s, 60s and 70s,” he said. “And some are pretty renowned.”The clubhouse, with its wooden walls, leather club chairs, and plaques on the wall commemorating member firsts (like the summit of Mount Everest in 1953), has a somewhat faded 20th-century grandeur that might come across as outdated to younger members.For example, the taxidermy. “The concept of Victorian hunters is quite alien to some of the younger members,” said Joshua Powell, who is deciding whether to pursue a doctorate at the University of Oxford, of a similar institution in England. “But England tried to cleanse itself entirely of it, and its clubhouse is quite stark as a result.”The Next Generation Explorers Network, or NGEN, was created in 2017. At first it was just a Facebook group where young members could share their work, ask questions and find one another. “The group currently has 175 members,” said Brianna Rowe, one of the organizers, during the annual weekend of science. After the event, membership grew to 199, pending approval from the club.The network has also started holding events like “beer and gear” nights where members talk about their favorite equipment, sometimes with an expert, like the climber Vanessa O’Brien, and seminars on how to get funding for an expedition.But these initiatives are mostly created by young members for young members. (All members are welcome in NGEN, but according to Ms. Rowe, most of the participation is by those under 40.) The big problem is how to mix the new with the old.Francesco Bandarin, the former assistant director-general for culture of Unesco and a member for about a year, said he believes the club needs to be going in this direction. “The Explorers Club has had an emphasis on geographic exploration, the South Pole, the North Pole,” he said. “It’s a little different now. We can explore the world with many more tools than hundreds of years ago. These young people are using satellites and lasers. It’s so cool.”Peter Lenahan, 62, brings young members along on expeditions he organizes, his most recent of which was a caving trip in Laos. “I’ve been leading trips for a long time, and I try to get the young people involved,” he said. “It’s really not that hard; you just have to tell them about the trip.”George Basch, 82, seemed a bit let down that more older people didn’t attend the most recent round of NGEN presentations. “It wasn’t that well advertised, and I’m disappointed the room was so small,” he said. “This is something that should have been presented to thousands of people. There were only about 20 of us old folks in the room.”But Mr. Basch planned to spread the word about the presentations. “I’m going to talk about it to everybody I meet or see the rest of the weekend,” he said. “These kids are so bright, so enthusiastic and so resourceful. Our club is lucky to have them so we won’t die out.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byIn 2013, the company started an ambitious, flashy effort to create robots. Now, its goals are more modest, but the technology is subtly more advanced.By Cade MetzVideos by Brian Dawson and Meg FellingMOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. — Google has quietly been retooling an ambitious but troubled robotics program that was once led by an executive who left the company amid accusations of sexual harassment. Starting in 2013, the internet company spent tens of millions of dollars buying six robotics start-ups in the United States and Japan. The project included two teams specializing in machines that looked and moved like humans. In a nod to Google’s grand ambitions, Andy Rubin, the vice president of engineering who ran the effort, called it Replicant. (The term was originally used in the science-fiction movie “Blade Runner.”)Little came of it.  Over the next few years, Google either sold off the companies it had acquired or shut them down. The best known of the bunch, Boston Dynamics, was bought by the Japanese conglomerate SoftBank and is still working on robots that move like humans or animals. Mr. Rubin left Google in 2014 after the harassment allegations.Google regrouped, and reconsidered its focus on the mechanics of complex robots. It has been rebuilding its program for the last few years, with robots that are much more simple than the humanoid-shaped machines that hung on the walls inside Mr. Rubin’s lab. The new effort is called Robotics at Google. It includes many of the engineers and researchers who worked under Mr. Rubin, and it is led by Vincent Vanhoucke, a principal scientist at Google. Mr. Vanhoucke, a French-born researcher, was a key figure in the development of Google Brain, the company’s central artificial intelligence lab. His team recently moved into a new lab on Google’s main campus in Mountain View. The New York Times was recently provided a first look at some of the technology the company has been working on. While the machines may not be as eye-catching as humanoid robots, Google researchers believe that the subtly more advanced technology inside them gives them more potential in the real world. The company is developing ways for these robots to learn skills on their own, like sorting through a bin of unfamiliar objects or navigating a warehouse filled with unexpected obstacles.Google’s new lab is indicative of a broader effort to bring so-called machine learning to robotics. Researchers are exploring similar techniques at places like the University of California, Berkeley, and OpenAI, the artificial intelligence lab founded by the Silicon Valley kingpins Elon Musk and Sam Altman. In recent months, both places have spawned start-ups trying to commercialize their work.Many believe that machine learning — not extravagant new devices — will be the key to developing robotics for manufacturing, warehouse automation, transportation and many other tasks.“Robotics has long held the popular imagination, but what is easily the most important change is the application of machine learning,” said Sunil Dhaliwal, a general partner with Amplify Partners, a Silicon Valley venture capital firm. “The utility is in the software.”Robots are already used in warehouses and on factory floors, but they can handle only specific tasks, like picking up a particular object or turning a screw. Google wants the machines it is working with to learn on their own.On a recent afternoon inside Google’s new lab, a robotic arm hovered over a bin filled with Ping-Pong balls, wooden blocks, plastic bananas and other random objects. Reaching into this pile of clutter, the arm grabbed a banana between two fingers and, with a gentle flick of the wrist, tossed it into a smaller bin several feet away. For a robot, it was a remarkable trick. When first presented with that pile of clutter, the arm did not know how to pick up a single object. But equipped with a camera that looked down into the bin, the Google system analyzed its own progress during about 14 hours of trial and error.The arm eventually learned to toss items into the right bins about 85 percent of the time. When the researchers tried the same task, their accuracy rate was about 80 percent. It may sound simple enough, but writing computer code to tell a machine how to do that would be extremely difficult. “It is learning more complicated things than I could ever think about,” said Shuran Song, one the primary researchers on the project.Researchers believe these machines could work in warehouses and distribution centers run by companies like Amazon and UPS. Today, humans sort through items that move in and out of distribution centers. A system like Google’s could automate at least part of the process, though it is unclear when it will be ready for commercial use. Amazon, which has already deployed other kinds of robotics in its distribution centers, is interested in this kind of technology. But many robotics experts warn that moving this kind of machine learning into the real world will be difficult. Technology that does well in the lab often breaks down inside a distribution center because it can’t deal with unexpected objects it hasn’t seen before or tasks that require movements it has never tried. “This is not the right solution for all problems,” said Leif Jentoft, the chief executive of the Massachusetts company RightHand Robotics and a seasoned robotics researcher. “These technologies can sometimes seem more powerful than they are.” In another corner of Google’s lab, researchers are training robotic hands to manipulate objects — push, pull and spin them in subtle ways. The three-fingered hands are hardly complex, at least in the physical sense. The software helping them learn is the breakthrough, and researchers hope the hands can eventually learn to use tools and other equipment.Google is taking a similar approach with all its robotic hardware. The arm that tosses objects into a bin is not an elaborate machine designed by Google engineers. Built by Universal Robots, it is commonly used for manufacturing and other tasks. Google is training it to do things it couldn’t otherwise do.“Learning is actually helping us overcome the challenges of low-cost robots,” said Vikash Kumar, the Google researcher who oversees this project.In a third part of the lab, researchers are training a mobile robot sold by a Silicon Valley start-up, Fetch. This rolling machine is learning to navigate unfamiliar spaces, which can help in places like warehouses and factories.Google is tight-lipped about how it hopes to deploy the technologies it is working on, but as with other forms of automation, there is an obvious question of whether it will take away jobs.“It is hard to imagine a future where that is not the case,” said Michael Chui, a partner with the McKinsey Global Institute, a business research organization. But other researchers believe the robots will complement human labor instead of replacing it. “There are still so many jobs in the warehouse that robots can’t do,” said Ken Goldberg, a robotics professor at Berkeley and one of the researchers behind Ambidexterous Robotics, a new start-up. “What they can do is assist with some of the drudgery.”Cade Metz is a technology correspondent, covering artificial intelligence, driverless cars, robotics, virtual reality, and other emerging areas. He previously wrote for Wired magazine.   @cademetz Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAt the heart of homogenization lies emptiness. Anything-but-this anger follows.By Roger CohenOpinion ColumnistI read the paper the other day, a satisfying two-hour meander across the world, full of surprises, diversions and revelations. Of course newspapers are dying. This sort of unfocused experience has nothing to do with efficiency or squeezing the last drop of productivity from each minute. It may assuage the soul but is alien to the demands of contemporary hustle culture.Along the way, as sections of The New York Times accumulated on the floor, piles of paper for which trees had given their last twig, I was seized, along with my pleasurable wonderment, by a growing conviction. The system is rigged. I am no conspiracy theorist, far from it, but all the people out there who feel that their lives have passed out of their control, that they are caught in the maw of some implacable machine, have a point.Three pieces stayed with me: Erin Griffith’s vivid journey into #ThankGodIt’sMonday workaholic culture; Derek M. Norman’s elegiac lament for the demise of the Half King, killed by soaring rents beside the High Line on Manhattan’s West Side, that monument to gentrification; and Meher Ahmad’s fascinating dispatch on the bulldozing of Karachi.They were unrelated, except that none contained the words Donald Trump. No algorithm would have led me from one to the other.Yet they were intensely related in that they all told, from different angles, a story of homogenization — the prodigal child of turbocharged global capitalism. They told of sameness, of how the “authentic” becomes a packaged marketing ploy rather than the genuine fruit of a distinct culture. They told of pressure — the 24/7 pressure to conform, comply and compete — and so offered clues to the anything-but-this anger coursing through the politics of developed societies.Griffith visited various WeWork locations in New York where neon signs urge tenants to hustle harder and, as she put it, “murals spread the gospel of T.G.I.M. Even the cucumbers in WeWork’s water coolers have an agenda. ‘Don’t stop when you’re tired,’ someone recently carved into the floating vegetables’ flesh. ‘Stop when you are done.’” Griffith quoted a tweet from Elon Musk, the chief executive of Tesla: “Nobody ever changed the world on 40 hours a week.” His workweek suggestion: “about 80 sustained, peaking about 100 at times.”Sebastian Junger, author of “The Perfect Storm,” was a co-owner of the Half King, a popular New York hangout for writers and photographers. Norman quoted him: “For the last few years, the only reason this place still existed is because we loved it. We wanted to take one last stand against the ‘generification’ of New York City.”That proved impossible, just as it proved impossible to stop the bulldozing of the Empress Market in Karachi.This was a place where, as Arif Hasan, a historian and architect, put it: “You could find crafts and trades that have been wiped out elsewhere. The bird market, the bookbinders market, the dry fruit market, all stalls that have existed for well over 50 years.”Must every London gentrified street have a Starbucks, a Pret A Manger, a Caffè Nero, a Costa Coffee, a Wagamama, an Itsu, a Tesco Express, an Eat, a Hotel Chocolat, a Foxtons and a Boots? Is that all that’s left?Emptiness is what people feel. At the end of all the myriad diversions offered up by technology-at-the-service-of-efficiency lies a great hollowness. “There is a crack in everything, that’s how the light gets in,” wrote Leonard Cohen. Modernity is a crack eliminator. The only cracks it allows in its polished, glistening, purring, scented spaces are fake ones.How then is the light to penetrate, that moment of illumination that may redeem a life? How to journey when every voyage is a return to the same place? How to achieve immersion when the currency of the age is distraction? How to know community in a digital group? How to untie experience from the pressure to review it, that is to say turn experience into a measurable and salable commodity?Impunity and inequality, immigration and marginalization — many reasons have been advanced for the explosion of anger in liberal democracies that produced a nationalist, nativist and xenophobic resurgence, and an American president bent on taking the world backward.I think the emptiness produced by watching a rigged globalized system deliver homogenization on a massive scale — one way to think, one way to work, one way to conceive of profit, one way to impose a brand, one way to (not) drink at lunch, one way to eat at your desk, one way to be healthy, one way to deliver a gentrified urban neighborhood — has been underestimated as a source of disruptive fury.Techies should read Zola. They may actually believe hustle culture is the road to happiness rather than a clever ploy to extract more work. They should recall, however, that the 40-hour week was a hard-won concession, a victory for humanity over the barbaric 19th-century work conditions and relentless hours of early industrial capitalism.The pursuit of happiness does not equal the embrace of 80-hour weeks. Take some time. Read a newspaper. It’s a revolutionary act.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Roger Cohen has been a columnist for The Times since 2009. His columns appear Wednesday and Saturday. He joined The Times in 1990, and has served as a foreign correspondent and foreign editor.  @NYTimesCohen Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey FortinAfter its first spaceflight in December, Virgin Galactic sent the same vessel past the edge of the atmosphere for a second time on Friday. This time, the rocket plane went higher and faster than before — and it had three crew members on board instead of two.The flight marked another step forward in a new kind of space race — one that aims to allow private citizens (who can afford the ticket) an opportunity to exit our atmosphere.It was the company’s fifth supersonic-powered test flight, and it reached an altitude of nearly 56 miles before returning safely to the Mojave Desert runway in California where it took off. Beth Moses, an astronaut trainer and microgravity research expert, was in the cabin as the company’s first test passenger in space.The SpaceShipTwo craft, a suborbital, rocket-fueled space plane called the VSS Unity, lifted off shortly after 8 a.m. local time. It was carried aloft under a larger  carrier plane for nearly an hour and then released. Next, its rocket ignited to propel the vessel, and its three crew members, up to where the sky turned black.Unity reached Mach 3 — three times the speed of sound — before the rocket motor was switched off shortly before 9 a.m. Then the vessel coasted to its highest altitude of 55.87 miles above sea level. Two tail booms rotated into a “feathered” position to create drag, allowing the vessel to fall gently back into the atmosphere and, ultimately, glide toward the runway.George T. Whitesides, the chief executive of Virgin Galactic, said the research conducted on the flight focused not only on the vessel’s trajectory, but also on the passenger experience.It went smoothly, he said. “The pilots did a great job.”The flight was a success for Richard Branson, the British billionaire who started Virgin Galactic in 2004. (Other billionaires funding private spaceflight projects include Elon Musk, who runs SpaceX, and Jeff Bezos, who is behind Blue Origin.)“Having Beth fly in the cabin today, starting to ensure that our customer journey is as flawless as the spaceship itself, brings a huge sense of anticipation and excitement to all of us here who are looking forward to experiencing space for ourselves,” Mr. Branson said in a statement on Friday.Ms. Moses’ job was to evaluate how passengers might experience a trip in the cabin. She observed the light, the temperature and the feeling of moving around in zero gravity. In an interview after the flight, she said it felt comfortable, and the view was beautiful.“It was intense and magical and serene and almost unlike anything anyone can imagine,” she said. “The earth below was super clear and bright, with a beautiful blue Pacific Ocean and snow on the mountaintops.”Ventures like these are more useful for testing the limits of tourism than for advancing scientific research, said Jonathan McDowell, an astrophysicist at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. He said the Virgin flights could be used to conduct microgravity tests or equipment checks.“But at this stage, from a scientist’s point of view, it’s equivalent to what we call a sounding rocket,” he said. “And we’ve been doing those since the 1940s.”Sounding rockets are vessels that were sent by NASA to the upper reaches of the atmosphere to collect data and test instruments starting in 1945 — an important precursor to more advanced space travel.NASA did participate in Friday’s flight via its Flight Opportunities program, which pays Virgin Galactic for space to conduct research inside the Unity during its trip.And the three people on board — two pilots, David Mackay and Michael Masucci, and Ms. Moses — got the vantage point of a lifetime.Never miss an eclipse, a meteor shower, a rocket launch or any other astronomical and space event that's out of this world.In an interview after the flight, Mr. Mackay commented on how quickly the sky turned black once the atmosphere faded, and Mr. Masucci said he was astonished by the sight of a very bright moon. They said the flight was amazing, but not frightening.“If you’re fully prepared, you don’t feel scared,” Mr. Mackay said.There is some room for debate as to whether Virgin Galactic has actually sent people into space. On both of its space trips — the vessel reached an altitude of 51.4 miles last time — the Unity flew higher than the Federal Aviation Administration’s definition of where space begins, but lower than another widely accepted boundary between Earth and space, called the Kármán Line, which is about 62 miles above sea level.In any case, Unity has flown high enough that the pilots saw a black sky above them and a blue-brown Earth below as they crested at the edge of the atmosphere. (Dr. McDowell is skeptical about the Kármán Line and thinks it is fair to say that Unity reached proper space on both of its recent trips.)Unity was the first Virgin Galactic craft to reach space, but it was not the first private spacecraft to get there. Another ship, operated by Mojave Aerospace Ventures, which later licensed its technology to Mr. Branson, soared to an altitude of 69.7 miles about 15 years ago.At the time, people predicted that it was the dawn of a new age of commercial human spaceflight. But the enthusiasm faded as years passed. Some non-astronauts were flown to the International Space Station, but commercial flights did not come to fruition. Then came a tragic setback: the fatal crash of a previous SpaceShipTwo craft in 2014. One pilot was killed after he released the lock on the booms too early and the vessel fell apart, investigators found.Virgin Galactic is expected to keep doing test flights and making improvements in terms of safety, altitude and weight capacity. It is still unclear when private citizens — including the more than 600 who have already bought tickets — will be allowed to take a ride.“It’s definitely not a decade,” Mr. Whitesides said. “We are really getting pretty close.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Federal prosecutors in Boston charged dozens of wealthy parents yesterday in a scandal focused on the use of fraud and bribery to help children get into elite schools.Plenty of big financial figures were indicted: They include Bill McGlashan, the managing partner of TPG’s growth-investment arm; Gordon Caplan, the co-chairman of the law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher; and Douglas Hodge, a former C.E.O. of the investment firm Pimco. The actresses Lori Loughlin and Felicity Huffman also face charges.Fallout is already coming. Mr. McGlashan was put on indefinite administrative leave from TPG.How the scheme worked, according to prosecutors:• William Singer masterminded the scheme through his Edge College & Career Network.• “There is a front door which means you get in on your own,” Mr. Singer told one parent in a conversation that was wiretapped. “The back door is through institutional advancement, which is 10 times as much money.” He promised a cheaper “side door.”• Parents paid Mr. Singer a total of about $25 million over eight years to bribe school officials into designating their children as recruited athletes.• Mr. Singer was accused of bribing athletic coaches to campaign for certain students who lacked athletic credentials to be admitted.• Indicted parents were also said to have paid to fake their children’s standardized tests, at a rate of $15,000 to $75,000 per exam.Britain is hurtling toward unknown political territory after Parliament again rejected Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan for leaving the E.U., Stephen Castle of the NYT writes.“Mrs. May had hoped that last-minute concessions from the E.U. would swing the vote in her favor, but many lawmakers dismissed those changes as ineffectual or cosmetic and voted against the deal, 391 to 242,” Mr. Castle writes.Lawmakers vote today on whether they wish to proceed with a no-deal Brexit. If they don’t, they will then vote on seeking an extension to the schedule for leaving.That course of action “does not solve the problems,” Mrs. May said last night. “The E.U. will want to know what use we mean to make of such an extension, and the House will have to answer.”But the result throws Britain into chaos. There are just 16 days to go before Brexit is scheduled to happen by default, and with control effectively wrestled from Mrs. May the nation is seemingly rudderless. Mrs. May could seek approval for her deal one last time; Parliament could try to arrange a second referendum; or there could be a general election to break the deadlock.And the business community is unimpressed. “It’s time for Parliament to stop this circus,” said Carolyn Fairbairn, the director-general of Confederation of British Industry. “This must be the last day of failed politics. Jobs and livelihoods depend on it.”More: The British government revealed plans to temporarily loosen tariffs under a no-deal Brexit, while also seeking to protect some industries, including ceramics and farming.While most of the world has grounded the jets, which have been involved in two fatal crashes within five months, American regulators have decided to keep them flying.European authorities banned the planes from the air, joining regulators in China, Indonesia, Singapore, India and Australia, as well as numerous airlines. Roughly two-thirds of the 737 Max 8 aircraft in the world are now grounded.President Trump spoke with Boeing yesterday, shortly after he had tweeted that airplanes were becoming “far too complex to fly.” In a conversation with Dennis Muilenburg, the company’s C.E.O., Mr. Trump was reportedly reassured about the safety of the Max 8 jets.The F.A.A. stands firm on its decision not to ground the aircraft, saying that it found “no basis” to do so. Elaine Chao, the U.S. transportation secretary, said that she and the F.A.A. would “take immediate and appropriate action” if necessary. (She also flew on a Max 8 yesterday.)But others disagree. Ray LaHood, a former secretary of transportation who grounded Boeing’s 787 Dreamliner in 2013 following fires in its lithium-ion batteries, said that it was the F.A.A.’s duty to ground the jets “until there is 100 percent assurance” of safety. Scott McCartney of the WSJ writes that the Department of Transportation, which is home to the F.A.A., has “shown a pattern of lax regulation” recently.The U.K. has joined the growing army of voices calling for checks on the power of Big Tech, with a government report that calls for an overhaul of antitrust policies. It was prepared by a panel led by Jason Furman, who was a top economic adviser to President Barack Obama. More on the news from Adam Satariano of the NYT:• “The 150-page report, ordered by the chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, the country’s top Treasury official, said the country needed stricter rules on acquisitions in the technology industry and stronger oversight to make sure that new rivals cannot be squashed.”• “Mr. Furman’s panel called for the creation of a ‘digital markets unit’ that would require companies to allow consumers to move data from one service to another. Large companies would also have to make data available to competitors, a bid to lower barriers to entry by forcing them to share information.”• “The report also calls for a code of conduct to be drafted for the biggest tech companies that would be enforceable with fines.”• As Grep Ip of the WSJ notes, this is “a carefully calibrated proposal designed to contain Big Tech’s threat to competition while keeping the government’s hand on the industry and the internet as light as possible.”The White House’s chief trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, won’t say whether he believes that trade talks with China will yield the results that President Trump has demanded.“Our hope is we are in the final weeks of an agreement,” Mr. Lighthizer told the Senate Finance Committee yesterday, reports Alan Rappeport of the NYT.“We’re either going to have a good result or we’re going to have a bad result before too long, but I’m not setting a specific time frame and it’s not up to me,” he added. “I’ll work as hard as I can, and the president will tell me when the time is up, or the Chinese will.”The chances of success have risen and fallen in recent weeks. Negotiations have appeared to make progress on issues including currency manipulation and enforcement provisions. But fears about Mr. Trump’s erratic bargaining style — compounded by his decision to walk out on talks with North Korea — have given Chinese officials some jitters.Timothy Sloan went to Capitol Hill on Tuesday seeking to convince members of Congress that Wells Fargo had become a better bank — but by the time he left, few seemed to believe him, Emily Flitter of the NYT writes. Some highlights:• “Representative Katie Porter, Democrat of California, questioned Mr. Sloan about exactly how meaningful the bank’s commitment to change was, pointing out that its own lawyers had called such statements ‘corporate puffery’ in response to a lawsuit.”• “Representative Lance Gooden, a Republican from Texas, asked why Wells Fargo was taking longer than expected to refund money to customers it had tricked into buying auto insurance. Mr. Sloan said the bank had engaged in ‘a give-and-take’ with the comptroller about how much to refund.”• “A spokesman for the bank’s primary regulator, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, released a statement on Tuesday saying officials were ‘disappointed’ in the bank.”Mr. Sloan was the first of a parade of bank executives summoned to testify before the committee. Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase and David Solomon of Goldman Sachs will appear at a hearing on April 10.Dr. Ned Sharpless, the director of the National Cancer Institute, was named acting director of the F.D.A.Morgan Stanley promoted Lauren Cummings and Ashley MacNeill to lead its technology equity capital markets practice in the Americas.Deals• Vice Media reportedly plans to raise another $200 million, perhaps at a steep discount to its last valuation of $5.7 billion. (Information)• Walt Disney expects to close its acquisition of the major assets of 21st Century Fox on March 20. (WSJ)• Labor representatives on Deutsche Bank’s board oppose a merger with Commerzbank, fearing job losses. The banks’ supervisory boards are reportedly meeting on March 21. (Bloomberg, Reuters)• Edward Lampert’s hedge fund took $57.5 million from Sears days before the two organizations struck a deal to create a new, streamlined version of the retailer, according to court documents. (NY Post)Politics and policy• Democrats want to tax the rich, but that may not raise enough to fund a liberal agenda. (Politico)• E.U. officials blacklisted 10 more jurisdictions, including the U.A.E. and Bermuda, as tax havens. (Bloomberg)• Robert Mueller’s report has Washington in a spin — and it’s not even published yet. (NYT)• Joe Biden and Senator Elizabeth Warren have a rivalry that dates to the 2008 financial crisis. (Politico)Trade• President Trump’s threat to place tariffs on imported cars is losing its bite in the face of legal challenges and disgruntled consumers. (WSJ)• Nissan said that it would stop producing Infiniti cars at its plant in Sunderland, England, and withdraw the brand from western Europe. (Bloomberg)Tech• The S.E.C. has been given a judge’s permission to respond to Elon Musk’s claims of unconstitutional censorship by the agency over his use of Twitter. (Reuters)• Meanwhile, Tesla has reportedly laid off 150 people from its recruiting team as part of its cost-cutting, and a leaked email suggests that Mr. Musk now approves every hire. (Electrek, Business Insider)• America’s beef with Huawei isn’t just about 5G: It stretches to undersea internet cables, too. (WSJ)• Here are 15 steps to disappearing from the grid while staying online, from a Bitcoin evangelist. (NYT)• Uber settled a long-running legal battle with drivers in California and Massachusetts, agreeing to pay them $20 million but not to change their status as independent contractors. (NYT)Best of the rest• Nissan and Renault have overhauled their alliance, as they seek to move past their former top executive, Carlos Ghosn. (NYT)• The Fed banned two former Goldman Sachs executives, Tim Leissner and Roger Ng, from the banking industry over their roles in the 1MDB fraud. (NYT)• Shell hopes to become the world’s largest electricity company by the 2030s, as it attempts to transition from fossil fuels toward lower-carbon energy sources. (FT)• Dick’s Sporting Goods is moving further away from selling guns, and taking a hit to its earnings. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCOLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. — Virgin Galactic's goal to fly tourists into space as early as this summer is about 12 years later than initially promised by its founder, British billionaire Sir Richard Branson.But many of its customers, including Gisli Gislason, aren't sweating it.Right up there with a few minutes in space on Gislason’s bucket list is his time on earth with other space enthusiasts and Branson, a fellow adrenaline junkie known as much for his globe-trotting stunts as for starting his own airline.“It’s more than just a trip to space, it’s a huge, ongoing event,” said Icelandic ticket holder Gislason, who has a Virgin Galactic logo tattooed on his arm and bought his ticket to space in 2010. “I’ve already got what I paid for, so I’m just in for a bonus,” he added.Gislason's experience is no accident.Since its early days, Virgin Galactic specifically set out to win customer loyalty, knowing its attempt to become the world’s first commercial spaceline would likely see its share of setbacks. So featuring its top salesman Branson, the company prioritized exclusive experiences for its “future astronauts,” building a community that has stayed loyal through years of pushed deadlines and a fatal 2014 crash. (For an interactive version of this story, click https://tmsnrt.rs/2Id1QMH)While waiting for their trip, some since 2004, Virgin ticket holders have been busied with treats on earth: from a custom-created solar eclipse festival in Idaho and test-flight viewings in California’s Mojave Desert to spaceship-shaped cufflinks at Christmas and group excursions to Branson's private island in the Caribbean, where they can play tennis with the famous entrepreneur and swap design ideas for the spaceflight around a campfire. “One of our astronauts once said to me, ‘Don’t fly to space, we’re thoroughly enjoying spending all this time going to the game reserve in Africa or Necker Island,’” Branson told Reuters in an exclusive interview.“That long, drawn out foreplay can be pretty good, the orgasm is quite quick,” he said, laughing. Ticket holders pay for some of these particularly high-end events, but just cover the travel for others.“That was a compelling part of the package,” said Mark Rocket, a New Zealander who changed his name nearly 20 years ago and signed up with Virgin Galactic in 2006. “It’s not just about those few minutes in space.”More than 600 people from 58 countries have put down a deposit for a 90-minute flight priced at $250,000, up from $200,000 in 2013. The first 100 “founders” will partake in a lottery to determine who gets to fly sooner rather than later. The company expects to increase the frequency of the flights as they build up their space fleet over time. It has collected about $80 million in ticket holder deposits, money which CEO George Whitesides said the company does not use for spaceship development. That funding instead comes largely from the Virgin Group and Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Investment Group. Other than stating Branson himself will be on the first scheduled flight, the company has not disclosed which ticketholders will go first – though Branson is considering the possibility of some customers jumping the line for the right price to help pay the bills. “There is a market out there we believe who would be willing to pay a million dollars to go on an earlier flight, and we’ve got a few slots at that sort of price,” Branson told Reuters.Signed-up “future astronauts” vary from billionaires to people who remortgaged their homes to pay for the ride, from pop star Justin Bieber to Mary Wallace “Wally” Funk, 80, one of the so-called ‘Mercury 13’ women who in the 1960s passed the same punishing tests as male astronauts before the program’s funding was pulled. Virgin’s decision to sign up customers long before it developed and tested a commercial spaceship contrasts with Blue Origin, founded by Jeff Bezos, which will only sell tickets for its suborbital flights after it completes its crewed flight tests.“It would not have been a Virgin company had we squirreled away in secret and built a spaceship without any customers and rolled it out once it was all ready and tested,” said Stephen Attenborough, Virgin Galactic’s commercial director and first full-time employee. Now, after a crewed SpaceShipTwo test flight to space in December 2018 and another carrying a test passenger in February, Virgin Galactic is inching closer to commercial flight. Blue Origin's New Shepard rocket has reached space but its first human spaceflight is still targeted for this year, and it has not determined a ticket price or when it will begin taking reservations.Elon Musk’s SpaceX is also in the race: last year it named Japanese fashion magnate Yusaku Maezawa as its first customer on a voyage around the moon, tentatively scheduled for 2023. “FUTURE ASTRONAUT” STRATEGYVirgin Galactic knew that the price tag for its flights, sold in advance to prove that there was a healthy market when there was a product to deliver, would require providing customer service during the wait.“Right from the start it was obvious to me that if we were going to have customers and we were accepting fairly large deposits, we were going to need to communicate regularly with those people,” said Attenborough.It was not clear how long the wait for tourist spaceflights might be, with Branson’s timelines shifting: In 2004, Virgin was saying it would offer commercial spaceflights by 2007. By 2012, the plan was 2013. As deadlines whizzed by, the future astronaut program evolved, organizing group trips from the Farnborough Air Show to the ‘Cradle of Humankind’ fossil site in South Africa.“That is something that they tapped into and wised up to really early,” said Trevor Beattie, a ticketholder and UK advertising executive working on Virgin Galactic’s marketing campaign. “They created, quite deliberately, a sense of community.”For some, access to Branson himself upped the experience.“Isn’t it funny how the wine tastes better when you know the winemaker?” said Matthew Upchurch, a ticket holder and the CEO of Virtuoso, a travel agency network with exclusive rights to sell Virgin Galactic flights in North America.CRASH TESTS LOYALTY       The biggest test of this carefully built customer community came in 2014, when a test flight crash killed the co-pilot and seriously injured the pilot.“I remember very well waking up very early on Saturday morning after the Friday accident and wondering what would happen to this customer base,” Attenborough said.The company reached out to customers by email on the day of the crash, both before and after the co-pilot’s death was known. There was a blog post from Branson on that day, and later, a video message. A subsequent email from the astronaut relations team said that they planned to call every customer individually.“That was obviously a horrendous day for everybody,” said Branson, adding that his experience of a fatal 2007 Virgin Trains crash in which an elderly woman was killed meant he knew it was important to get to the scene of the test flight accident and “take these things head on.”In the end, Attenborough said only a “handful” of customers asked for refunds.An email seen by Reuters from the astronaut relations team three weeks after the crash said it would soon share a program of upcoming activities and trips. It advertised some “gold-dust-like spots” for a “star Galactic team” at the London Marathon – some of the sponsorship money would now go to a memorial fund for the co-pilot who was killed.After consulting with customers, the company went ahead with one of its planned annual Virgin Galactic trips to Necker Island just a few weeks after the crash.Now, after years of huge setbacks and surreal highs, Virgin Galactic’s ticketholders are edging closer to their flights. For some, space is still the final frontier.“I’ve driven a Bugatti at 253 miles an hour, I’ve skied to the South Pole, swam at the North Pole. I’ve done a lot of stuff and the thing I really want to do is fly in space,” said Jim Clash, an adventure journalist and passenger 610. (Editing by Greg Mitchell and Edward Tobin)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.India kicks off election season, China offers trade concessions and Britain gears up for another crucial Brexit vote. Here’s the latest:General elections will kick off on April 11 and unfold in seven phases before polls will close on May 19. Results will be announced on May 23.The world’s largest democratic exercise, with some 900 million eligible voters, is widely seen as a referendum on the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is running for a second five-year term.Analysis: In 2014, Mr. Modi’s promises of ambitious economic reforms won him the first single-party majority in the country in three decades.His popularity may be dented by a series of mismanaged policies and an emboldened nationalist movement associated with his Bharatiya Janata Party.On Tuesday, British lawmakers are scheduled to vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s two-part blueprint for the country’s withdrawal from the E.U.Many expect Parliament to reject her plan again, leaving Britain, in all likelihood, pleading with the E.U. for an extension of the March 29 deadline for the divorce.What’s next? Mrs. May’s plan addresses trade during a transitional period immediately after Brexit that will expire in December 2020, with the potential for a two-year extension.Even if lawmakers do vote for her plan, questions about Britain’s long-term trade relationship with the E.U. would still need to be negotiated, a process that could take several more years.Go deeper: The Brexit referendum vote in 2016 exposed long-festering fissures between the country’s rural and urban populations, as well as its young and old, and ended up driving wedges between families and friends.Over the weekend, Chinese officials raised potential solutions to major roadblocks in trade talks with the U.S., possibly edging the world’s two largest economies closer to a deal.First, China would accept an enforcement mechanism that would allow the U.S. to monitor Beijing’s economic policies and unilaterally reinstate tariffs in case of violations of an agreement — if China had equal monitoring and enforcement powers.Beijing also suggested that both sides had reached an understanding to avoid deliberately devaluing their currencies for competitive advantage, but allow them to adjust for other reasons. Those are essentially the terms of an agreement China and the U.S. signed on to in 2016.Private-sector control? A Chinese entrepreneur who has accused the government in court and online of stealing his rights to coal-rich land has disappeared.As the terrorist group’s territory in Syria and Iraq shrank to little more than a speck, the Islamic State gained a footing in the southern region of the Philippines.In January, the group claimed a bombing at a cathedral that killed 23 people on the island of Jolo. The Philippine military responded with airstrikes and stationed 10,000 soldiers there.“ISIS is the most complicated, evolving problem for the Philippines today, and we should not pretend that it doesn’t exist because we don’t want it to exist,” said the chairman of the Philippine Institute for Peace, Violence and Terrorism Research.History: The largely Christian nation’s Muslim minority is concentrated in the southern islands, where the lawless wilderness has been a haven for insurgencies, like Abu Sayyaf.In 2016, the Islamic State began circulating messages online to encourage those militants to join under its black flag.Ethiopian Airlines: A flight carrying more than 150 passengers crashed shortly after taking off from the Ethiopian capital, Addis Ababa, killing everyone aboard. Boeing identified the jet as one of its new 737 Max 8 models — the kind involved in a Lion Air flight crash in Indonesia in October that raised questions about whether pilots should have been made more aware of its new automatic controls.Japan: A ship collided with an object believed to be a whale in the Sea of Japan, injuring 80 passengers on board, according to a ferry company.Pakistan: Two climbers missing for weeks, one British and one Italian, were pronounced dead after their “silhouettes” were spotted on the Nanga Parbat mountain where they were trekking, according to Italy’s ambassador to Pakistan.North Korea: President Trump, months after declaring on Twitter that there is “no nuclear threat from North Korea,” was forced to acknowledge that Kim Jong-un had indeed continued to build out his nuclear program, even during their budding friendship and long before their second summit meeting in Vietnam.South Africa: A generation after apartheid, nearly 70 percent of farms held by individuals have white owners, fueling disappointment in the governing African National Congress and spurring some in the black majority to seize land themselves.Paul Manafort: President Trump’s former campaign chairman was sentenced to 47 months in prison for perpetuating a decades-long, multimillion-dollar fraud scheme, a relatively lenient punishment that drew sharp criticism from legal experts.Tesla: In need of a boost to its revenues and battered stock prices, the automaker is set to unveil the Model Y, an S.U.V. crossover, this week. The chief executive, Elon Musk, said it would have 10 percent more space than the Model 3 sedan and cost slightly more. The company’s revenues and stock price has been battered.Howard Schultz: The Starbucks founder’s prospective run for president next year seems to be raising concerns among shareholders who worry that his political ambitions could elicit a backlash against the coffee chain.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day:  Chickpea stew with orzo and mustard greens is colorful and complex. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recipe recommendations.)Your frustration at work could be fuel for a breakthrough.Heavy bedding is everywhere now. Does it really help with insomnia?The Times published an obituary of Carmine Persico, a noted New York mobster, on Friday. In some circles, the bigger news was the byline.“Say it with me children: Selwyn Raab,” the Times writer Dan Barry tweeted.Mr. Raab, 84, retired from The Times in 2000, after decades of reporting on the Mafia. His signature 2005 book, “Five Families,” runs roughly 800 spellbinding pages.Your Back Story writer gave Sel a call. In addition to projects for the History Channel, he’s writing a pilot for a 10-part series based on “Five Families” and working with Netflix on a series about the 1986 Mafia Commission trial.Sadly, we didn’t have a photo of him at hand.“I was always very careful about showing my face,” he said, his humor as unchanged as his energy. “The point is, very simply, that there was always a gentlemen’s agreement that if you wrote honestly about organized crime figures, they wouldn’t victimize you, but there are always crackpots.“And I wasn’t that good-looking to begin with.”Andrea Kannapell, the Briefings editor, who overlapped with Mr. Raab at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe Saturday ProfileBy Dan BilefskyMONTREAL — Yoshua Bengio is worried that innovations in artificial intelligence that he helped pioneer could lead to a dark future, if “killer robots” get into the wrong hands.But the soft-spoken, 55-year-old Canadian computer scientist, a recipient of this year’s A.M. Turing Award — considered the Nobel Prize for computing — prefers to see the world though the idealism of “Star Trek” rather than the apocalyptic vision of “The Terminator.”“In ‘Star Trek,’ there is a world in which humans are governed through democracy, everyone gets good health care, education and food, and there are no wars except against some aliens,” said Dr. Bengio, whose research has helped pave the way for speech- and facial-recognition technology, computer vision and self-driving cars, among other things. “I am also trying to marry science with how it can improve society.”Dr. Bengio was expounding on the promises — and perils — of A.I. on a recent day while sitting in his small, cramped office at the Montreal Institute for Learning Algorithms, a research center he founded that has made Montreal a global center for artificial intelligence. Next to him was a whiteboard covered with complex mathematical equations, along with a warning for the cleaners written in French: “Do Not Erase.”Erasing those equations could come at a heavy cost for humans as well as machines.Dr. Bengio, a professor of computer science at the University of Montreal, is self-effacing. But his work in an area known as deep learning — “teaching machines to learn in a way inspired by how our brains compute,” he says — has already affected our daily lives in countless ways, making it possible for Google Translate to convert a sentence from French to Mandarin or for software to detect cancer cells in a medical image.He and his researchers are also harnessing A.I. to discover molecules that could cure diseases, to detect gender bias in textbooks and to predict when natural disasters will happen.Cherri M. Pancake, the president of the Association for Computing Machinery, which offers the $1 million award, credited Dr. Bengio and two other luminaries who shared the prize, Geoffrey Hinton and Yann LeCun, with laying the foundation for technologies used by billions of people. “Anyone who has a smartphone in their pocket” has felt their impact, she said, noting that their work also provided “powerful new tools” in the fields of medicine, astronomy and material sciences.Despite all the accolades, Dr. Bengio recoils at scientists being turned into celebrities. While Dr. Hinton works for Google and Dr. LeCun is the chief A.I. scientist at Facebook, Dr. Bengio has studiously avoided Silicon Valley in favor of a more scholarly life in Montreal, where he also co-founded Element A.I., a software company.“I’m not a fan of a personalization of science and making some scientists stars,” said Dr. Bengio, a self-described introvert, who colleagues say is happiest when hunched over an algorithm. “I was maybe lucky to be at the right time and thinking the right things.”Myriam Côté, a computer scientist who has worked with Dr. Bengio for more than a decade, described him as an iconoclast and freethinker who would feel stymied by the strictures of Silicon Valley. A communitarian at heart, she said, he shuns hierarchy and is known for sharing the profits from his own projects with younger, less established colleagues.“He wants to create in freedom,” she said. Citing the credo of student rebels in 1968 in Paris, where Dr. Bengio was born, she said his philosophy was: “It is forbidden to forbid.”That, in turn, has informed his approach to A.I.Even as Stephen Hawking, the celebrated Cambridge physicist, warned that A.I. could be “the worst event in the history of our civilization,” and the billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk has cautioned it could create an “immortal dictator,” Dr. Bengio has remained more upbeat.“We need to pursue scientific knowledge, or all we will do is run against a wall,” he said. “But we need to do it wisely.” Referring to the use of algebra to compute the angles of missiles, he added: “You can’t blame the inventor of algebra for war.”Nevertheless, at a time when Facebook algorithms have come under criticism for their influence in the 2016 United States election and fears are growing that  robots could use A.I. to target humans without human oversight, Dr. Bengio is acutely aware that his innovations risk becoming “Frankenstein’s monsters.” As a result, he said, he supports regulating A.I., including an international treaty banning “killer robots” or “lethal autonomous weapons.”But he dismissed the “Terminator scenario” in which a machine, endowed with human emotions, turns on its creator. Machines, he stressed, do not have egos and human sentiments, and are not slaves who want to be freed. “We imagine our creations turning against us because we are projecting our psychology into the machines,” he said, calling it “ridiculous.”The son of Sephardic Jews from Casablanca, Morocco, who emigrated to Paris in the 1960s, Dr. Bengio traced his interest in A.I. to his childhood, when he hungrily devoured the science fiction books of Isaac Asimov, Ray Bradbury and Arthur C. Clarke.He said his imagination was particularly kindled by the relationship between man and machine in Stanley Kubrick’s “2001: A Space Odyssey.” “A teacher who spends every day teaching a machine about the world resonated with me,” he said. “Science fiction was a way to dream about the future.”At the age of 11, he recalled, he began programming by plugging numbers into a calculator. Asked to recall the most formative memories from childhood, he suddenly paused and made an unlikely confession.“I don’t have a good memory — I’m good at reasoning, not at memory. That’s why I was drawn to math and computer science, as you don’t need to memorize anything.”Dr. Bengio attributed his success to his socially conscious parents, noting that his father, a pharmacist who directed theater, and his mother, who managed artists, gave him and his brother the freedom to think for themselves.It appears to have worked. His brother, Samy, one year younger, runs a research group at Google Brain, an A.I. research team. The two were “practically twins,” he said, collaborating on research and exchanging ideas.When he was 12, the family moved to Montreal, where his maternal grandparents were living. While pursuing his masters and doctorate in computer science at McGill University in the late 1980s, he recalled, he was drawn to the work of Dr. Hinton, who was striving to develop “intelligent computers” based on so-called neural networks, mathematical algorithms that can learn tasks on their own by analyzing vast swathes of data.“It wasn’t just some mathy thing or computer science, but about understanding human intelligence to build intelligent machines,” he said. Postdoctoral work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Bell Labs followed.Dr. Bengio noted that he, Dr. Hinton and Dr. LeCun labored on neural networks for decades, even as many in the computer science establishment dismissed them as dabblers in a form of dark magic with few, if any, practical applications. For Dr. Bengio, bucking conventional wisdom came naturally.“The big dreams of building intelligent machines faded in the late ’90s and people thought, ‘Oh, it’s too hard — let’s just use our algorithms to solve concrete problems,’” he recalled. “I guess I am not sensitive to what people care about at a particular time, and I believed in what I was doing.”While their trailblazing work transformed the field — and turned him into an A.I. superstar — Dr. Bengio still delights in spending time with students, whom he describes as a “family.” He is divorced and has two grown children, one of whom has gone into A.I. He spends his rare free moments reading Spinoza and walking in the woods near his house.Unimpressed by scientific prizes or riches, Dr. Bengio stressed that complacency and overconfidence were the enemies of scientific progress.“Being self-confident is not enough,” he said. “You can be self-confident and wrong.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.) The last couple of weeks have been a roller coaster for Los Angeles public schoolteachers, parents and students.After months of tense back-and-forth, more than 30,000 teachers were set to walk off the job on Thursday. But on Wednesday, legal questions prompted union leaders to postpone the strike until today.And as the two sides didn’t renew negotiations over the weekend, pickets are set to begin at 7 a.m. My colleagues, like Jennifer Medina, will be covering the action today, but in the meantime, here’s what you need to know:Why are the teachers striking? Teachers and employees of the Los Angeles Unified School District, the nation’s second-largest school system, say that working conditions have become untenable. Despite California’s reputation as a progressive bastion, the state still spends relatively little on public education — about half as much as New York spends on the average child.Now, educators are demanding higher pay, smaller class sizes and the hiring of more support staff like counselors and librarians.How did things get to this point?Money, of course.More specifically, profound disagreements about how much money the district has now and how much will likely be available in years to come.While union leaders say that the district has big reserves that could help pay for all that they’re asking, other officials — most visibly Austin Beutner, the district superintendent — say that meeting the demands would bankrupt the district.I have no ties to Los Angeles schools. Why should I care?The strike is a new front in the debate about the role of public education in American life.While teachers protesting severe underfunding of public schools have staged walkouts in six states over the past year, those have been largely in conservative or swing states with weaker unions.The strike in Los Angeles shows that even in staunchly liberal areas many of the same tensions are bubbling over. And educators’ frustrations in L.A. could ripple across the state.In Silicon Valley, for instance, teachers are facing not just tough working conditions, but also skyrocketing housing costs that often make it impossible for them to live near the students they teach.I am a parent of a child in the district. What do I need to know?You can still send your child to school, but there’s no question that classes will be disrupted: The district is enlisting highly paid substitutes and holding lessons in larger spaces.Although absences will be counted as unexcused, some parents say they’ll be keeping their children home as a show of solidarity.(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• A man the authorities say gunned down a Davis police officer as she responded to a traffic collision was previously ordered to surrender an AR-15 rifle after punching a co-worker. The suspect was found dead of an apparent self-inflicted gunshot wound. [The Sacramento Bee]• Friends and family remembered the officer, Natalie Corona, 22, as a dedicated officer for whom law enforcement was a lifelong dream job. “Anything she did, she would make sure people had every resource available. It wasn’t about driving a fast car or making an arrest.” [The Sacramento Bee]• In his first week in office, Gov. Gavin Newsom came out swinging at some of progressives’ most intractable bugaboos, including paid parental leave and housing. He also signed an executive order proposing a plan that would allow California to negotiate directly with drug manufacturers. [The New York Times]• Geisha Williams, the chief executive of Pacific Gas and Electric, has stepped down amid the utility’s continuing woes over the role its equipment played in starting devastating wildfires. The company has also said it intends to file for bankruptcy protection. [The New York Times]• PG&E equipment started more than one fire a day on average in recent years. Some of those were quickly extinguished. Some burned thousands of acres. [The Wall Street Journal]• The partial government shutdown, now the longest ever, has claimed more Joshua trees as victims. The desert has taken a hit without enough National Park Service employees to prevent visitors from damaging the fragile environment. [The New York Times]• SpaceX, the Elon Musk-led spaceship company, will lay off 10 percent of its work force. [The Los Angeles Times]• Los Angeles had a mixed weekend in the N.F.L. playoffs: The Rams made the Cowboys look hapless on Saturday. On Sunday, the Chargers got thrashed by the Patriots. [The New York Times]• The first baby gray whales of 2019 have been spotted off the coast of Orange County. [The Orange County Register]• People have watched this video of a U.C.L.A. gymnast’s perfect floor routine millions of times. And for good reason — Katelyn Ohashi is pretty amazing. [UCLA Gymnastics]How much would you pay for doggy day care? How much would you believe other people would pay?If your answer was south of $1,500 a month, then you’re probably not living in San Francisco.Yep, hyper-luxe, exclusive babysitting for your canine companion is the latest outrage-inducing display of wealth to roil residents of the city.The Guardian reported that Doggy Style (that’s its real name) in Noe Valley offers perks for those who spring for its most expensive membership package including a “hand-painted mural” of their dogs on a wall of fame, as well as a private birthday party “for 12 pups and their humans.”It may sound outrageous to pay more than the average rent on an Antelope Valley apartment for pet pampering, but the prices are actually in line with other similar services, the article says.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter,@jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Yesterday was another busy news day in California. A historically wet winter helped officially end a more than seven-year drought, and fallout from the college admissions fraud investigation continued to spread: Students spurned by universities allegedly involved have begun to sue, saying they unwittingly participated in a process rigged against them.[Here are answers to all your questions about the scandal.]But today, we wanted to dig into the Los Angeles contemporary art scene. Jason Farago, a critic for The New York Times, recently made his way west for a piece exploring L.A.’s place in a global art ecosystem. He wrote about how he approached an expansive landscape: It’s almost a rite of passage for a New York Times art critic to be sent to Los Angeles to take the temperature of the city’s museums and galleries, and to pronounce whether the second-largest city in America has “caught up” to our hometown. As long ago as 1956, one of my predecessors wrote that “spectacular myths hover with the smog over Los Angeles obscuring the considerable progress this city has made in terms of the arts during the last few years.”So when my editor and I sat down to plan my recent story on contemporary art in Los Angeles, timed to the West Coast debut of London’s Frieze Art Fair, we set ourselves some ground rules. No clichés of L.A. as a dream factory of endless sunny days. No cooing over allegedly cheaper rent, which has become a myth of its own. Even the go-to jokes about traffic no longer made sense now that the New York subway has buckled into chronic dysfunction.Over a week in Los Angeles — plus a few days in Palm Springs, scoping out the sculpture of the Desert X biennial — my priority was to assess the city on its own terms. I visited just about every museum and gallery from Brentwood to Boyle Heights.I had coffees with museum directors and beers with recent M.F.A.s, whose local concerns dovetailed with global artistic ambitions. Plunked in the middle of it all were two new art fairs — Frieze, held on the Paramount backlot, and Felix, staged in the guest rooms and cabanas of a Hollywood hotel — that were the first to draw a global audience to Los Angeles after years of false starts. (My colleague Jori Finkel had a report from the fairs.)Surveying any city’s art scene, let alone one as diverse as L.A.’s, is a game of omissions. With more space I’d have covered stalwart galleries like Regen Projects, in Hollywood; newer ones like Château Shatto, downtown; and nonprofits like Art + Practice, Mark Bradford’s space in South L.A.The collector base is growing, though it remains small relative to the city’s wealth. Alternative spaces like the Underground Museum, the Cabin, and Bel Ami are doing very good work.The city’s boosters want critics to tell you that Los Angeles is now the center of the contemporary art scene. But the truth is that no single city can lead the way in producing the art of our time. Los Angeles, like every large city, is now a constituent of a global art system, where none of us is insulated from the flows of money and images. That may not be a satisfying conclusion, but at least it gives us the space to understand this wonderful city as it really is.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Who deserves Pacific Gas & Electric’s assets: Employees seeking bonuses or wildfire victims? It’s a question complicated by the typical corporate bankruptcy process, which often leaves some parties at a big disadvantage. [The New York Times]• Amid mounting controversies and a criminal investigation, two top Facebook executives are leaving, including Chris Cox, who is a member of Mark Zuckerberg’s inner circle. [The New York Times]• Still, Facebook’s daylong malfunction this week was a reminder of how many lives the company touches on a daily basis, and of the fragility of the internet. [The New York Times]• A new Stanford study looked at 100 million traffic stops. It found that black and Latino drivers were stopped more often based on less evidence. [NBC News]• After a 22nd horse died since Dec. 26, officials at Santa Anita Park banned drugs and whips. The spike in fatalities highlights horse racing’s lack of meaningful oversight, and the park’s owners said leaders needed to do better if they want the sport to survive. [The New York Times]• U.S.C. has in recent decades tried hard to overcome its reputation as a school for wealthy kids, investing in a strong athletic program and high-profile academics. But a spate of leadership failures and scandals — and now, its place in the F.B.I.’s college admissions investigation — have left Trojan family members wondering about the school’s future. [The New York Times]• Near the end of a weird week for Tesla, Elon Musk unveiled the company’s latest Model Y, a “baby S.U.V.” Yes, that means Tesla has models S, 3, X and Y, and yes, that was intentional. (Ford holds the trademark for “Model E.”) [Wired]• Each tech wave has been fueled by so-called mafias — cohorts of former colleagues who support one another’s work and fund one another’s projects. So what will a future built by Airbnb and Uber mafias look like? And who will be excluded? [The New York Times]• A photojournalist who’s followed Jordan Bell through his rookie season talked with the Warriors big man about some of the moments he captured in this neat visual project. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Everything you ever wanted to know about why Sacramento has so many orange trees. (A perfect Mediterranean climate helps a lot. Also you can pick your neighbor’s fruit if it’s hanging over into your yard, but you should probably ask first, just in case.) [The Sacramento Bee]If you live in San Diego, consider us jealous. Not only can you make a (relatively) quick trip to check out Estacion Federal — the hip Tijuana commons its developer recently described as “part artistic community, part commuter waypoint and part gastro-utopia” — but you’re also in a good position to check out El Jardín. That’s Tejal Rao’s recommendation this week:I’ve been spending time in San Diego lately, and reviewed one of the standouts for this week’s Food section: El Jardín, which opened last year in a new mixed-use development on a former Navy training base. And the chef, Claudette Zepeda-Wilkins, is a local, a border kid who grew up splitting her time between Mexico and the United States.Her menu celebrates the range, sophistication and diversity of Mexican cuisine, bringing together dishes that don’t usually live under the same roof, like giant Sonoran hot dogs, Yucatecan-style octopus cooked with sour oranges, and the fava-bean-filled tlacoyos of Mexico City.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misidentified the title of an artwork. It is “Ground Transposition,” not “Ground Transportation.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta and Melina Delkic(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Meng Wanzhou heads to court, Tesla and Facebook rethink their strategies and Virgin Atlantic makes lipstick optional. Here’s the latest:The Supreme Court of British Columbia will decide whether the Huawei executive, who has been detained since December, should be extradited to the United States, where she faces fraud charges. The proceedings began on Wednesday, with the court setting a date for the hearing.What to expect: Canada approves about 90 percent of the extradition requests it receives, so it is likely that Ms. Meng will be sent to the U.S., though it could take months.The judge will determine whether the fraud that Ms. Meng is charged with in the United States is also a crime in Canada.Her lawyers, however, will argue that the charges are politically motivated, which could potentially help her case.In other Canada news: Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s former top adviser and close friend, Gerald Butts, testified before a parliamentary committee, trying to defuse a political scandal that has threatened Mr. Trudeau’s job.The United States imported more goods than ever last year, bringing its trade deficit with the rest of the world to $891.3 billion.President Trump has long been fixated on narrowing the trade deficit, which he believes is a measure of whether countries around the world are taking advantage of the U.S. Though few economists share that view, the new figures suggest that by his own metric, Mr. Trump is failing.Reasons: The increase in the amount of goods imported was driven, in part, by a broader economic slowdown and the strength of the U.S. dollar, both of which weakened global demand for American exports.The Trump administration’s trade war and tax cuts exacerbated the trend. In fact, the U.S. imported a record amount of goods from China, despite Mr. Trump’s tariffs on billions of dollars’ worth of Chinese goods, and American exports to China fell by nearly 50 percent in December. And money from the tax cuts helped Americans buy more imported goods.Made in America: Four companies in the U.S. were found to have falsely advertised that their products were American-made when in fact they were manufactured in China. After the North Korean leader returned from his meeting with President Trump in Hanoi, Vietnam, without any sanctions relief, experts around the world wondered what he would do next.American and South Korean analysts announced on Tuesday that the country was rebuilding key missile-testing facilities, raising concerns that it was preparing to resume testing its weapons.The reasoning: North Korea may have wanted to rebuild the sites in order to make their dismantling more dramatic if the Hanoi summit meeting produced a deal, the intelligence officials were quoted as saying, or it may have wanted the option to resume rocket tests if talks broke down.The flip side: Other experts believe that a weak economy may force Mr. Kim back to the negotiating table.North Korea’s economy contracted by 3.5 percent in 2017 because of sanctions, according to South Korea’s central bank. And United Nations officials estimate that food production last year fell to its lowest level in more than a decade.After years of scandals surrounding user privacy, the world’s largest social network will prioritize private and encrypted communication between users, shifting away from its founding principles of public sharing and an open platform.“I believe a privacy-focused communications platform will become even more important than today’s open platforms,” Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said in a blog post.Details: Mr. Zuckerberg said he planned to spend the years ahead building systems and products that create a type of “digital living room” where people can communicate privately across all of the company’s networks — Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger.In other business news: Tesla is shutting down most of its stores — just three months after a sprint to open new locations — in an effort to cut costs at a time when investor confidence in the company and its founder, Elon Musk, is wavering. Grab: The Singapore-based ride-hailing giant, which serves eight countries in Southeast Asia, secured a $1.5 billion investment from SoftBank, bringing its current valuation to about $14 billion, according to a person briefed on the matter.Carlos Ghosn: The former Nissan chairman may have gotten out on bail before his trial — a relatively rare feat in Japan — but he faces steep odds: Japanese prosecutors have a 99 percent conviction rate with indicted defendants.Michael Cohen: Six checks from President Trump to his former personal lawyer that were obtained by The Times show how he paid to keep secrets private while in the White House.Solomon Islands: An oil spill from a Hong Kong-flagged cargo ship that ran aground last month is spreading toward a World Heritage site, East Rennell, alarming environmentalists and government officials. Officials in Australia, which has a close relationship with the Solomon Islands, said they would send vessels, equipment and experts to help contain the damage.Italy: The Benetton family, known widely for its clothing brand, also owns Autostrade per l’Italia, or Highways for Italy, a private company that managed the bridge that collapsed in Genoa last year, killing 43 people. The calamity is now the subject of a criminal inquiry.Virgin Atlantic: The British airline sent a note to its female flight attendants, instantly recognizable in their sleek red skirts and crimson lipstick, that they no longer have to wear any makeup and can choose to wear pants.Goldman Sachs: Executives at the Wall Street giant told employees in an internal memo that the company would be adopting a more “flexible” dress code in an attempt to lure younger workers who might be considering careers in Silicon Valley, where jeans and sneakers are the norm.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Match sweet, tangy citrus with peanuts and avocado for a satisfying salad.Tours by and for women have grown in popularity, from bonding on a polar bear cruise in Norway to a cultural retreat in Calgary. Here are four destinations to consider.Lighting, textiles, throw pillows and smells: There are ways to style a room on a budget; all you really need is a bit of imagination and patience.If you’re about to open a can of something tasty, thank the French. And the British.In the late 1700s, Napoleon was on the move, invading Italy, Austria and Egypt. Feeding his enormous armies was a problem — he needed a way to keep food from spoiling.A confectioner, Nicolas Appert, spent years coming up with a successful process. He placed fruits, vegetables and meats in glass bottles, corked and wired them, then boiled the bottles for hours. He didn’t know he was killing microbes — he just knew that the more heat and less air, the better.By 1810, Napoleon’s government handed him a 12,000-franc prize and required him to publish a book, with the catchy title, “The Art of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances for Many Years.”Glass, unfortunately, breaks. It was the British who soon developed the tin can.James K. Williamson wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The future of Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane is in question after an Ethiopian Airlines flight crashed yesterday, killing 157 people.The Ethiopian Airlines flight was the second disaster involving the jet in five months, after a Lion Air crash in Indonesia killed 189 people in October. It’s rare for two planes of the same model to be involved in accidents in such a short time span, the NYT reports.The 737 Max is core to Boeing’s business. It’s the company’s best-selling model (list price: $120 million). Since its introduction in 2017, 350 planes have been delivered, and 5,000 more are currently on order. Chris Bryant of Bloomberg Opinion notes that its success is why Boeing shares are near a record high — though shares were down sharply in premarket trading.China and Indonesia have grounded the Max 8 jets. China’s airlines had been enthusiastic customers of the new model, but as of this morning they’ve been flying 737-800s instead.Concerns may give rivals a leg up. The 737 Max was created to counter Airbus’s latest A320 variant. Meanwhile, the Chinese plane maker Comac has been testing the C919, a rival of those jets, and has hoped to find buyers beyond China.Undeterred by a recent loss to Democrats, President Trump is expected to ask for $8.6 billion to finance a border wall in the next White House budget, which is to be sent to Congress today.• The proposal also includes $3.6 billion to replenish military construction funds that were diverted under a national emergency declaration.• “I would just say that the whole issue of the wall and border security is of paramount importance,” said Larry Kudlow, the president’s top economic adviser.• Democrats rebuffed the proposal. “Congress refused to fund his wall, and he was forced to admit defeat,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer said in a joint statement. “The same thing will repeat itself if he tries this again.”The request is largely for show. As the NYT notes, the White House budget “will serve more as a statement of values and a vehicle for political positioning than a plausible outline for how the government will actually raise and spend money.”Don’t expect the budget to be balanced, regardless of whether the wall funding is included.[Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter and make sense of major business and policy headlines.]In a push to strike a trade deal, the U.S. may be at risk of signing a watered-down agreement.A potential compromise could enable a deal to be reached this spring, Keith Bradsher and Ana Swanson write.• Washington has been pushing Beijing to agree to a so-called enforcement mechanism that would allow the U.S. to monitor China’s behavior and impose penalties for violations.• Wang Shouwen, China’s vice minister of commerce for international trade negotiations, said on Saturday that China would be amenable to an agreement that gave each side an equal right to take trade actions.But China’s promises not to manipulate its currency don’t seem to be particularly original, Mr. Bradsher writes:• American negotiators want China to avoid devaluing its currency to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports.• But “currency provisions of the evolving trade agreement are essentially a reaffirmation of the statement that the G-20 economies, including China, issued” in 2016.The bigger picture is a growing concern that, as the NYT Editorial Board points out, the Trump administration “may settle for an ephemeral victory at the expense of America’s long-term economic interests.”Tomorrow, the British Parliament is to vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s deal for leaving the E.U. Right now, its chances for approval don’t look good.Talks between Britain and Brussels are deadlocked, according to Mrs. May’s office. Negotiators have been trying to secure last-minute changes to win over British lawmakers, after a previous version of the agreement was overwhelmingly rejected by Parliament.Some hard-line Brexiters say defeat is “inevitable.” And a former Brexit secretary, David Davis, has said that even a proposal for Mrs. May to step down in exchange for support of her deal would “not get the vote through.”Meanwhile, those who want to stay in the E.U. have “wind in the sails,” according to the British foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, who said over the weekend that there is a real risk of “losing Brexit.” If Mrs. May’s deal is rejected, lawmakers would vote on whether to reject a no-deal Brexit and delay the withdrawal process. That could increase the chances of a second referendum.More: Brexit has reportedly spurred financial firms to move $1.2 trillion in assets and funds out of Britain. And the Bank of England has told some British lenders to triple holdings of easy-to-sell assets to weather a no-deal Brexit.The Fed chairman gave a rare interview to “60 Minutes” about the economy, future interest rate increases — and whether President Trump could dismiss him.On job security: Here’s the exchange between Mr. Powell and Scott Pelley of “60 Minutes”:Pelley: Can the president fire you?Powell: Well, the law is clear that I have a four-year term. And I fully intend to serve it.Pelley: So no, in your view?Powell: No.On the U.S. economy: Mr. Powell said that America was in “a good place,” with a favorable outlook on inflation. The Fed’s interest rate policy, he added, is “appropriate.” (Translation: Don’t be surprised if the Fed keeps rates steady until it has a better idea of the outlook for the year.)On the global economy: Mr. Powell feels more concerned, telling Mr. Pelley, “We’ve seen increasing evidence of the global economy slowing down.” The biggest potential shocks to the U.S., the Fed chairman said, could come from slower growth in China and Europe, as well as Brexit.More: How central bankers around the world are taking cues from the Fed by reducing interest rate increases to cushion slowing economies.We’re now a decade into one of the great rallies in stock market history, which has seen the S&P 500 surge 305 percent and the creation of $30 trillion in wealth. Matt Phillips tried to explain why  most Americans are subdued after the latest rally:• “To buy stocks, you need money. After watching their fortunes — and retirement funds — shrivel, few Americans were in a position to take a fresh flier on beaten-down stocks.”• “Even those who are invested are behaving differently, both in how they invest and what they’re doing with the proceeds.”• “In 2017, 43 percent of all the money in American stock market funds was in index funds. Back in 2007, only 19 percent of stock market assets were in these passive strategies, a style of investing that acknowledges that, for most people, trying to beat the market through savvy trading is a mug’s game.”• “The psychological and financial damage inflicted by the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession continue to weigh heavily.”• Research suggests that “enduring financial traumas at a relatively young age can shape people’s behavior for decades.” That could mean that younger Americans “are unlikely to be eager to take big risks in the stock market any time soon.”A year ago, Twitter’s C.E.O., Jack Dorsey, said that he wanted the company to make the conversations on its platform healthier. Kurt Wagner of Recode finds that the effort is failing.• “There’s no widely adopted way to quantify the health of human interaction, especially at the internet’s scale.” But the measures that Twitter and researchers are considering include a “toxicity” metric and one that takes note of civility, receptivity and constructivity, helped by researchers from Oxford and Leiden Universities.• “The research teams that Twitter announced last July to help them work on this project haven’t even started. One of the two teams has abandoned the project altogether. Internal metrics Twitter is building on its own are still in the ‘experimentation’ phase and aren’t being tested in the wild.”• “Lawyers for Twitter and Leiden haven’t been able to solidify the data-sharing and privacy details for the partnership, which means the researchers are simply waiting.”In an op-ed for the FT, Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., writes that it’s time to overhaul international corporate tax rules:• “The ease with which multinationals seem able to avoid tax and the three-decade-long decline in corporate tax rates compromise faith in the fairness of the international system.”• One solution, she says, is to create minimum-tax schemes. “Reduce the scope for shifting profits to low-tax locations,” she suggests, or “allow low-income countries to retain more revenue by imposing minimum withholding taxes on cross-border payments.”• Another is to “create a system that fully taxes routine profits — something like a normal return on investment — on basic activities in the country in which they take place, while splitting any remaining profits among all the relevant nations.”Sam Altman stepped down as president of Y Combinator, but remains chairman of the start-up incubator.Bill Shine stepped down as White House communications director to take a position on President Trump’s re-election campaign.Bank of America named James Robertson and Peter Luck as co-heads of investment banking for Britain.DealsNvidia agreed to buy the chip maker Mellanox for about $7 billion. (CNBC)Deutsche Bank’s C.E.O., Christian Sewing, is said to have dropped his opposition to a possible merger with Commerzbank. (FT)The talent agency Endeavor unwound a $400 million investment from Saudi Arabia after receiving financial help from other investors. (NYT)The Wall Street financiers Josh Harris and David Blitzer are reportedly considering selling their majority stake in the English soccer club Crystal Palace. (Bloomberg)Politics and policyThe White House reportedly plans to issue executive orders on issues with bipartisan appeal, including drug pricing and the opioid epidemic. (Axios)Joe Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders led a poll of likely Iowa caucusgoers, solidifying their standing as front-runners for the Democratic presidential nomination. (NYT)A poll found that the company most popular with Democrats was Kraft Heinz, while for Republicans it was Chick-fil-A — and for independents, it was Amazon. (Axios)Mr. Trump falsely claimed he didn’t call Tim Cook “Tim Apple.” (Axios)TradeThe U.S. worries that Germany’s new gas pipeline will make the country too reliant on Russia. (WSJ)The U.N. says North Korea has been undermining sanctions meant to pressure it into giving up nuclear weapons. (WSJ)TechElizabeth Warren has vowed to break up big tech companies, and Amy Klobuchar has argued that companies that make money off user data should perhaps pay more in taxes. (FT, Verge)Tesla says it will have to raise the price of its Model S and X vehicles about 3 percent to keep more stores open and still sell the $35,000 version of its Model 3. (Tesla)Facebook reportedly has a 6,000-person security team to quietly protect the social network’s employees. (Business Insider)The Trump administration wants to use social media to help identify people who are receiving federal disability benefits without being truly disabled. (NYT)Silicon Valley wants to build a monument to … Silicon Valley. (NYT)Best of the restQatar reportedly offered $400 million to FIFA just three weeks before the nation was named host of the 2022 World Cup. (Times of London)Wells Fargo says that its culture has changed in light of numerous scandals, but employees disagree. (NYT)What will a contempt hearing mean for Elon Musk? Also, Tesla investors are suing the company to stop Mr. Musk from tweeting. (DealBook, Fortune)Female bankers have criticized UBS over the way it cuts bonus payments after maternity leave. (FT)Sotheby’s, the art auction house, turns 275 today. Its first auction? A sale of “several hundred scarce and valuable books,” which fetched £826. (Sotheby’s)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byFictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Josh TyrangielHARK By Sam Lipsyte 284 pp. Simon & Schuster. $27.We begin with a schmuck. His name is Fraz Penzig — Fraz being how his father, Frank, once heard himself paged over a static-filled airport loudspeaker. “Penzig men,” writes Sam Lipsyte. “Always hovering just outside of an inside joke they have played on themselves.” It’s hard to diminish a character faster than naming him for a mistake, but we soon learn that Fraz is abrasive and useless at his job. He has a porn fetish that’s common knowledge in his grossed-out social circle. His 8-year-old twins may have rectal parasites. His wife, Tovah, enjoys French-kissing one of Fraz’s childhood rivals. “Tovah told him that life is not a zero-sum game, but Fraz senses that if it were, he would be the zero sum.”Hark Morner is also named for a mistake, this one involving a foreign-born mother and a Christmas carol. “She thought the song was about someone telling their friend Hark that the herald angels were singing,” Hark tells Fraz. But where Fraz has been sinking since birth, Hark is rising — as in “glory to the newborn king” rising — through mental archery, a quasi-religious mindfulness regimen of his own creation. He’s still in the pamphlet-selling phase when he meets Fraz, and he’s not the chattiest messiah. But when Hark speaks, “his voice is an enchanted river with roars and hushes and thick, crystal swerves. It carves a course for Fraz to follow, to flow toward, out from his fetid backwaters, his brack stink.”[ The paper’s 2010 review of “The Ask” called it “the sort of book that, if it were an animal, would be a lumbering, hairy, cryptozoological ape-man with a near-crippling case of elephantiasis.” ]The attraction and repulsion between would-be Jesus and his apostle Costanza is a major story line in “Hark,” though it’s hardly the only one. “Hark” is Lipsyte’s first novel since 2010’s much-loved “The Ask,” and similarities abound. Both are satires featuring underemployed, middle-aged New York Jewish protagonists with abandoned artistic dreams, cheating wives and snack-food obsessions. That’s a pretty specific box on the census form for a writer to check twice. Both also veer away from narrative to chase any excuse for a riff — then swing back with prose so good you feel guilty complaining about the whiplash. The difference is that in “Hark” the riffing has more serious consequences.“Hark” is split into halves, the first of which is extremely funny. In a few swift pages we learn that Hark started as a stooge on the corporate speaker’s circuit, hired to bore audiences with meaningless aphorisms (“You are the arrow! But you are also what it pierces”) until an executive ringer would eject him from the stage to heroic applause. “Hark wasn’t the only person who worked this niche. A guy named Cornelius the Corporate Impostor had the gig before Hark. Big Lev from Biz Dev had sewn up Silicon Valley. But they were too broad. Nobody bought their acts after a line or two. Hark twitched with the plausible.” [Read: Sam Lipsyte on the role of sex scenes in fiction.]In the midst of these gigs, Hark has his revelation. It’s a recurring joke that no one can explain mental archery beyond its “focus on focus,” but pamphlets are written, yoga poses created (“Priapic Centaur, Roaring Rama, Encircling Sioux”), and a core of acolytes gather. There’s the heiress Kate Rumpler and Teal, Kate’s anticapitalist, ex-convict ex-girlfriend. (Kate: “You did do time for embezzlement.” Teal: “That company was building fascism in America. And its shipping policies were absurd.”) Kate funds Hark with her inheritance. Teal runs Hark Hub, home of the latest Hark videos and social threads. Fraz fancies himself the movement’s Steve Bannon, while the others regard him as its Michael Cohen. All are mired in ironic detachment from their misery and attracted to Hark’s simple message. But they’re unsure if his odd speech and mannerisms are signs of sanctity or just weirdness. “Maybe Fraz is too impure to know the difference.”Having dropped Hark at the edge of a Tony Robbins-like breakthrough in Part 1, the story unravels some in Part 2 — for Hark and for “Hark.” Lipsyte crowds the plot with a stalker/Svengali, an organ-donation kidnapping thingumajig, and an Elon Musk-y villain, complete with surgically dyed irises, who exists mostly as a reason for Lipsyte to groove on big tech. He also shoves his skeptical Greek chorus aggressively toward belief, leading to lines like this from Fraz to Kate: “There’s something a little too uncomplicated in Hark for people like us. Thing is, we’ve got to change, not him.”That’s a honker of a passage, though it serves Lipsyte’s point — that modern life is so grim, people will bend far below the limbo bar of logic in search of some peace. Even the author can’t make up his mind about Hark and mental archery. “Fraz does believe,” he writes, only to double back a few sentences later and suggest that he doesn’t.But the battle between Hark and Fraz is never a fair fight. Regardless of the deficiencies Lipsyte piles onto them, Fraz, Kate, Teal and others are fully formed characters. We know Fraz’s inner life, see moments of tenderness with his kids, and even get the occasional glimpse of his appeal. Calling back to Fraz’s courtship with Tovah, Lipsyte writes: “He told her to consider him a downed wire: unpredictable, potentially lethal. Tovah thought him more a lost shoelace, but adorable.”Hark, meanwhile, is a great idea and a lousy character. He’s only ever alive as a vessel for riffs about belief, fraud, transcendence, corporate off-sites, etc. Many of these are dazzling, but hardly all of them, and Hark is in the book a lot. There’s considerable time given to his speeches: “What we learn from the example of the Mongols.…” Meta, sure. But meta-boring is still boring. In an attempt to give Hark a bit more flesh some information gets sprinkled in — he’s a cop’s kid, his favorite drink is ice — but it’s a tough sell that smart, damaged, witty, miserable people would lend Hark their attention for longer than it would take to ridicule him. Let alone devote their tiny reservoirs of hope to something as inchoate as mental archery.Lipsyte tries to give his characters cleaner moments of salvation before wrapping things up, but this being a Christ allegory tucked inside a satire, it’s safe to say it doesn’t end terribly well for anyone. It’s a shame. Not only because so much of “Hark” is brilliantly alive, but because everyone in it could use a bit of mercy.Josh Tyrangiel is the executive vice president of news at Vice and the former editor of Bloomberg Businessweek.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta and Melina Delkic(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. The U.S. and North Korea try to reach a deal for a second time, India escalates hostilities with Pakistan and the universe confounds astrophysicists. Here’s the latest: President Trump landed in Hanoi, Vietnam, to meet with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, for the second time in eight months. The two leaders, who in 2017 exchanged fiery threats, will have dinner together tonight and a series of formal meetings the next day.Both sides have plenty at stake. Their last meeting ended with a vaguely worded agreement that spurred little concrete action.What North Korea wants: Pyongyang has a long list of demands, including an elimination of sanctions, a formal end to the Korean War with a peace treaty and, possibly, the withdrawal of American troops from South Korea. The troops have functioned as a deterrent against the North since 1953 when the two sides signed an armistice that simply halted the war.What the U.S. wants: Mr. Trump seems to be tempering expectations, moving away from discussing the “complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula” but still seeking a timeline.On the eve of his meeting with Mr. Kim, the president said he didn’t want to “rush anybody.” “As long as there is no testing, we’re happy,” he said. Go deeper: Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has his work cut out for him as the translator of Mr. Trump’s seemingly capricious foreign policy decisions. Here’s an in-depth profile of the former C.I.A. director, one of the last remaining members of the president’s original White House team.For the first time in five decades, Indian warplanes crossed into Pakistan.India said it had struck “the biggest training camp” of Jaish-e-Mohammed, a terrorist group that claimed responsibility for this month’s suicide bombing in the Kashmir Valley.But Pakistan’s chief military spokesman said the jets just dipped in and out of its airspace and dropped a payload in a forested area, doing little damage. That view is supported by military analysts and two Western security officials.Analysis: With India claiming it had avenged the terrorist attack and Pakistan claiming no real damage had been done, both nuclear-armed countries left room for defusing the situation.But analysts warned that Pakistan could still retaliate. Today, the country’s prime minister, Imran Khan, will meet with the National Command Authority — the body that oversees the deployment and management of Pakistan’s nuclear arms. The British prime minister said Tuesday that Parliament should have a chance to delay Brexit if it rejects her plan, bowing to pressure to reduce the risk of a chaotic “no deal” departure from the E.U.Her hand was forced when rebels in her Conservative government threatened to vote for a forced extension of talks with the bloc.Next steps: Mrs. May plans to bring her revised deal to Parliament by March 12. If lawmakers reject the deal, she said they could vote in the next two days on whether to delay an exit for a short time or opt for a “no deal” departure. A postponement would require the consent of all 27 other E.U. governments.Go deeper: Ever wonder what happens in those Brexit talks at the European Union headquarters in Brussels? According to a confidential document obtained by The Times, not very much. Sentencing proceedings for Cardinal George Pell, the highest ranking Roman Catholic cleric to be convicted of sexual abuse, are expected to begin today. The process could take days. The cardinal, who was an adviser to Pope Francis, is facing anywhere from a handful of years to a maximum 50-year prison term after being convicted in December of sexually abusing two 13-year-old choirboys. He has been expelled from a group of papal advisers.Timing: The verdict was unsealed on Tuesday, only after prosecutors decided they would not proceed with a second trial for an additional round of assault allegations and a gag order was lifted. The order had prevented news outlets operating within Australia, including The Times, from reporting the verdict to readers in the country. This is the article The Times published in print only, to comply.Behind the secrecy: Our Australia bureau chief explains how the country shrouds law enforcement and the courts in unusual secrecy, particularly in cases of sexual and family violence. Officials say it protects victims and defendants, but critics say it disadvantages victims.Michael Cohen: President Trump’s former personal lawyer and fixer is spending several days this week testifying on Capitol Hill. A person familiar with his plans said that on Wednesday, in a public session before a House committee, he will most likely describe what he says is the president’s possible criminal conduct and go into “granular detail” about the plan to pay hush money to Stormy Daniels, a pornographic film actress.Elon Musk: The Securities and Exchange Commission has asked a federal court to hold the Tesla chief executive in contempt of court for posting an updated production outlook on Twitter without first seeking legal approval, in violation of his settlement with the commission last year.Huawei: The United Arab Emirates said it still planned to use equipment from the Chinese tech giant to build its high-speed wireless network, the latest setback for the American-led campaign to curtail the company’s reach.Yogurt: In South Asian households, cultures of the tart dairy product are akin to heirlooms, preserved for years and passed down to help churn out new batches. “I can’t recall a single day, growing up, when the fridge was without yogurt, or as it’s known in Hindi, dahi,” writes Priya Krishna, a frequent contributor to our culinary coverage.Britain: Under new rules, all adults will be considered potential organ donors by 2020 unless they opt out, flipping the current system. Sex education: English schools, particularly those that receive government funds, will significantly broaden sex education to cover topics including gay relationships, transgender people and more. Not everyone is happy.The universe: It seems to be expanding far more rapidly than it should be. And astrophysicists have struggled to account for the discrepancy. We’ll leave the details to our science writer Dennis Overbye, who has a way with words (and a physics degree from M.I.T.).Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Make chicken piccata, and rejoice over its butter-rich pan sauce.Choosing a perfume or cologne is tough, but we have experts to help you find a fragrance that you’ll love.Why we yawn remains a mystery, but one theory is that it cools off our brains.This week, the U.S. vice president, Mike Pence, accused Uruguay of being a “bystander” in Venezuela’s crisis, calling on its center-left government to do more to end President Nicolas Maduro’s devastating reign.A reader, Annelise Gasser of Quebec, asked how a tiny South American nation acquired such diplomatic significance.To start, Uruguay is arguably the only South American nation with clean democratic credentials that maintains decent relations with Mr. Maduro. Credibility with both Maduro supporters and opponents make it a natural intermediary in any negotiated transition.Uruguay’s soft approach stems from a live-and-let-live attitude, developed over two centuries of coexistence with much bigger neighbors. The country has long led the region in progressive politics, legalizing marijuana and gay marriage.While hard-liners in Miami threaten military intervention to oust Mr. Maduro, on the laid-back streets of Montevideo, residents resolve most of their problems over a slow barbecue and the ever-present thermos of caffeine-rich mate (pronounced MAH-tay).Anatoly Kurmanaev, our Caracas-based reporter, wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Jose A. Del Real, Joe Coscarelli and Niraj ChokshiLOS ANGELES — It had become an inspiring symbol of success in South Los Angeles, but on Monday the Marathon Clothing store was transformed into a makeshift memorial for the rapper Nipsey Hussle, the co-owner, who was fatally shot outside its doors, stunning fans across the city and the music world.Some prayed and cried, while others left candles, flowers and signs to express their condolences for Hussle, born Ermias Joseph Asghedom, who had grown up in the Crenshaw area and stayed on to help his neighborhood even after becoming big enough to make it out. A steady flow of passing cars on Slauson Avenue blared tracks from his latest album.Bela Vega, 28, a fan, fought back tears as she explained how Hussle, 33, had given hope to people who had also grown up around gang violence. His fans and neighbors clung to lyrics and interviews in which he advocated self-improvement; his financial investments in the community, she said, showed he was serious about creating a ladder for other people who had grown up in similar circumstances. But now, his death, and the questions surrounding it, have reignited longstanding fears about violence and despair in the area.“The story repeats over and over again, and you just ask, ‘When does it stop?’” Ms. Vega said. “This is our community. But do I want my son to grow up over here? No. No.”Two others were wounded in the shooting, and a suspect has yet to be identified, according to the police.Hussle remained a regular presence at the strip mall off Crenshaw Boulevard that houses Marathon. Outside the store on Monday, mourners shared stories about times they had summoned up the courage to say hello to him and the smiles he had flashed back.[More than a dozen people were injured as a stampede broke out at a memorial for Nipsey Hussle.]“He meant everything to the community,” said Lesly Marroquin, 26. “This was all him. His music, he speaks real facts. He talks about how he grew up. He wanted people to see what he went through, to show people they could change. He was a role model.”The area, comprising several predominantly black and Hispanic neighborhoods in South Los Angeles, is home to many working- and middle-class families. Its streets are lined with single-family homes and low-rise apartment buildings, while its main boulevards and thoroughfares feature strip-mall businesses and fast-food restaurants. The area has a troubled history with gang violence, something Hussle addressed in his music. Crime has remained a significant concern, residents said Monday, even as citywide rates have fallen in recent decades.An autopsy found that Hussle died from gunshot wounds to the head and torso, the Los Angeles County Department of Medical Examiner-Coroner determined. Chief Michel Moore of the Los Angeles Police Department noted Sunday night that in one week there had been 10 homicides and 26 shooting victims across Los Angeles. “That’s 36 families left picking up the pieces,” he said on Twitter. Despite those numbers, the yearly total of homicides in the city of Los Angeles, which includes Crenshaw, has decreased steeply in the last 30 years, from a peak of 1,092 in 1992 to 259 in 2018.Still, Hussle made improving South Los Angeles a priority. After his rap career took off, he diversified beyond the music industry, becoming a local businessman and philanthropist.“From the beginning, Nipsey Hussle has been a critical part of #DestinationCrenshaw, even inspiring the name!” Marqueece Harris-Dawson, a city councilman who represents South Los Angeles, said on Instagram. Destination Crenshaw is a project devised to promote black cultural history in South Los Angeles.Last year, Hussle, who taught himself how to build computers, helped open a center in Crenshaw dedicated to connecting underrepresented groups with technology companies, according to an interview with The Los Angeles Times.“Growing up as a kid, I was looking for somebody — not to give me anything — but somebody that cared,” he told the newspaper. “Someone that was creating the potential for change and that had an agenda outside of their own self interests.”As a teenager, he dropped out of high school and became involved in street life and joined a gang, according to interviews, as he tried to start a rap career.He began releasing music in the mid-2000s, and first made his name with the “Bullets Ain’t Got No Name” series of mixtapes, which established him as an inheritor of the storied lineage of Los Angeles gangster rap, carrying a torch lit by N.W.A, Snoop Dogg and DJ Quik. He was a muscular rapper who delivered direct, unromanticized lyrics about navigating the challenges of street life.On singles like “Hussle in the House,” which had the trademark g-funk synthesizer whine and a reference to “Straight Outta Compton,” Hussle rapped authoritatively as a resident of Crenshaw and especially the notorious Slauson Avenue. “I’m from where homicide boost the economy,” he delivered matter-of-factly. “I came from nothing/so did every other rapper/save the speculation/real banger, gun clapper.”Slender and a little grizzled, with slick braids and a grown-out beard, he identified as a member of the Rollin 60’s Crips gang, which he chalked up to history, circumstance and survival. “I’m not promoting it. I’m just speaking on it,” he said in a 2010 interview with Complex magazine.“I feel like I’m an ambassador,” the rapper added. “I’m more focused on giving solutions and inspiration more than anything.”He had plans to meet on Monday afternoon with representatives from Jay-Z’s Roc Nation and officials from the Los Angeles Police Department to talk about preventing gang violence, according to Steve Soboroff, the Los Angeles police commissioner.As his music career careened forward, Hussle largely stayed the independent route, releasing most of his projects through the All Money In label that he founded in 2010. But his entrepreneurial streak often earned more attention than his songs, namely the marketing coup tied to his 2013 mixtape “Crenshaw,” in which he sold 1,000 copies for $100 each (including 100 copies to Jay-Z, who respected the hustle).The move came as digital piracy and free music online had all but sapped CDs of value, leading Hussle to start his #Proud2Pay movement. “It ISN’T the price of the plastic case and polyurethane disc,” he said at the time, “it’s the price of Revolution! The price of Rebellion against an industry that has tricked us all into making products that have no soul for fear of not being heard if we don’t.”It wasn’t until last year that he released his proper debut studio album, “Victory Lap,” via Atlantic Records (in partnership with All Money In). The LP debuted at No. 4 on the Billboard chart and was nominated for best rap album at the Grammys, losing to Cardi B’s “Invasion of Privacy.”He collaborated with a wide array of rappers, including Drake, the Game, Snoop Dogg, Childish Gambino, Rick Ross and YG. He was an occasional actor and had a memorable performance as a rapper having a feminist awakening on the CW sitcom “Crazy Ex-Girlfriend.”Hussle also guest-starred on YG’s anti-Trump hip-hop anthem “FDT,” rapping: “I’m from a place where you prolly can’t go/speakin’ for some people that you prolly ain’t know/it’s pressure built up and it’s prolly gonna blow.”At the same time as he released “Victory Lap,” which featured Puff Daddy and Kendrick Lamar, Hussle helped open a 4,700-square-foot co-working space in Crenshaw called Vector 90, dedicated to increasing diversity in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.“In our culture, there’s a narrative that says, ‘Follow the athletes, follow the entertainers,’” he told The Los Angeles Times last year. “And that’s cool but there should be something that says, ‘Follow Elon Musk, follow Zuckerberg.’ I think that with me being influential as an artist and young and coming from the inner city, it makes sense for me to be one of the people that’s waving that flag.”He added: “I just want to give back in an effective way.”His death drew condolences from across the music industry and beyond, with everyone from Drake and Rihanna to Steph Curry and Russell Westbrook recognizing the stamp he left on his city.“It’s dangerous to be an MC,” Nas wrote on Instagram. “It’s dangerous to have money. Dangerous To Be A Black Man... Nipsey is a True voice. He will never be silenced.”Hussle was in a relationship with the actress and model Lauren London, with whom he had a son, Kross. He also had a daughter, Emani, from a previous relationship.Outside the Marathon store on Monday, Marcus Adams, 24, said the rapper “was an inspiration” for him as a young black man who grew up in South Los Angeles. Mr. Adams, who is studying business administration at West Los Angeles College, said Hussle’s music reflected his own experience trying to avoid the pitfalls of growing up in an impoverished community.“I came because I just felt I owed it to him,” he said. “It’s a job to come here and show my condolences.”Jose A. Del Real reported from Los Angeles. Joe Coscarelli and Niraj Chokshi reported from New York. Jon Caramanica contributed reporting from New York.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. Many airlines take their Boeing 737 Max 8 models out of service, Indians rally behind Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Turkey enters an economic recession. Here’s the latest: What brought an Ethiopian Airlines flight down just minutes after takeoff on Sunday, killing all 157 aboard, has not been determined. But while the investigation proceeds, at least 22 carriers have taken the Boeing model involved out of service, including all those operating in China and Indonesia.Follow our live coverage of the latest developments here.The accident was the second in recent months involving Boeing’s new 737 Max 8. In October, a Lion Air flight crashed into the Java Sea shortly after takeoff. Aviation authorities have been looking into the possibility that incorrect data might have activated new anti-stall software that kept pushing the nose downward — and that pilots may not have been made fully aware of.On the ground: The plane’s flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder have been recovered, Ethiopian Airlines said. The pilot sent out a distress call and was cleared to return to the airport shortly before the crash.Victims: The passengers on the plane were from all parts of the world, including professors from Kenya, an underwater archaeologist and U.N. workers from a variety of countries.Traveling soon? Here’s how to find out if your next flight is on a Max 737. And you can send your questions about the plane to our reporters. A month ago, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s chances of winning a second term seemed weakened. But after a suicide bombing in Kashmir set off weeks of military brinkmanship with Pakistan, even once-critical Indians have started rallying behind him.That India’s airstrikes probably missed their targets, and that a fighter jet was shot down by Pakistan, don’t seem to matter.“Whatever our criticisms about him regarding the economy and jobs, at the end of the day he has done an incredible job of delivering justice for the martyrs,” said a law student and first-time voter.Context: India has a Westminster-style parliamentary system. For Mr. Modi to return to power in the coming general elections, which start on April 11, he and his Bharatiya Janata Party need to win a majority of the 543 electable seats in the lower house, the Lok Sabha.The opposition Congress Party is trying to sway the conversation back toward domestic issues, like the sputtering economy and a spike in hate crimes against minority groups.The country’s electric system has been down for more than four days, plunging most of the country into sporadic darkness and adding further uncertainty to the country’s economic and political crises.The country’s largest power producer went down on Thursday, and no date has been set to restart the plant. Looting and protests have broken out, and desperate patients have been begging doctors to be kept alive.Finger-pointing: President Nicolás Maduro blames U.S. sabotage and cyberattacks for the blackout, without providing evidence. Energy experts and Venezuelan power sector contractors dismiss that explanation, instead pointing to mismanagement and corruption.Related: The U.S. claimed that Mr. Maduro’s supporters had set fire to a convoy of humanitarian aid, but an investigation by The Times found that the actual cause was more likely a Molotov cocktail thrown by an anti-government protester.Prime Minister Theresa May flew to Strasbourg, France, to attempt to rescue her unpopular withdrawal plan.It’s unclear what kind of concessions she can win in the 11th hour meeting that would prevent Parliament from voting the plan down today.What next? If she loses, Mrs. May has promised to offer a vote on whether Britain should leave the E.U. without a deal — a scenario that could brutally upend the country’s economy and one that a majority of lawmakers oppose.Related: A protest by customs officers in France has delayed Eurostar trains and backed up trucks for miles, providing Britain with a cautionary tale of a post-Brexit world. Afghanistan: As its peace talks with the U.S. in Doha, Qatar, entered an extraordinary third week, the Taliban pressed its offensive in the western Badghis Province, killing 16 Afghan National Army soldiers and capturing 40 — an entire company — in a large-scale attack.U.S.-China trade war: In a high-stakes diplomatic negotiations with North Korea’s leader Kim Jong-un, President Trump’s strategy of relying heavily on his own personality and ability to read people failed. The same strategy faces a serious test with Mr. Xi.Malaysia: An Indonesian woman who was accused two years ago of smearing a lethal nerve agent on Kim Jong-nam, the estranged half brother of the North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, at Kuala Lumpur International Airport was released without explanation. The fate of a second suspect in the killing remains uncertain.Turkey: The country is officially entering a recession, with government figures showing two consecutive quarters of falling economic growth. The currency has tumbled and investor concerns are rising, a damaging combination for President Recep Tayyip Erdogan ahead of crucial elections at the end of the month.U.S. budget: President Trump sent Congress the largest spending plan in federal history, requesting $4.75 trillion for the next fiscal year. His proposal — which would increase military spending and fund a border wall with Mexico while sharply cutting domestic programs, like education and environmental protection — was declared dead on arrival by Democrats in the House and Senate.Tesla: Days after its chief executive, Elon Musk, announced that the carmaker would shut most of its dealerships, the company reversed course, saying that it would keep “significantly more stores open” and that it would raise prices for most of its cars worldwide by 3 percent.Super bloom: Forest fires followed by heavy rains in California this year have spurred colorful wildflowers to blossom across the state, turning arid landscapes into explosions of purples, yellows and greens.The internet: The memes, Wikipedia pages and emails that you look at every day travel to your device via nearly 750,000 miles of extremely thin cables strung across the ocean floor. And now a few tech giants, notably Google, are working to lay their own cables to keep pace with demand for higher and higher data speeds.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: With spaghetti carbonara, the main goal is creaminess.Expensive smart home gadgets are still niche and of limited use. Smart lights, on the other hand, are useful to just about everyone.Wheelchair users offer tips on air travel for other wheelchair users.Charles Boycott couldn’t buy food. He couldn’t find employees. He could hardly walk down the street in peace.Boycott, born on this day in 1832, wasn’t the first person shunned as a form of protest, but it’s his name that signifies the practice.In 1880, residents of County Mayo, Ireland, were facing potential famine after several failed harvests, and many could not pay their rent. Boycott, the land agent for a wealthy nobleman, was responsible for evicting those on his employer’s 40,000 acres. When he tried, the Irish National Land League suggested nonviolent protest. Boycott’s neighbors shunned him. Stores declined to serve him, his laborers quit and jeering mobs followed him.Boycott’s plight attracted international attention, including front-page stories in The New York Times.Boycott left Ireland, but his name remained, reportedly popularized by a priest who thought “ostracize” would confuse common people.Within months, The Times was using it to describe events elsewhere in the world.Aodhan Beirne wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Boeing on the defensive, hours until a crucial Brexit vote and Venezuela’s blackout threatens social implosion. Here’s the latest: What exactly brought down an Ethiopian Airlines jetliner just minutes after takeoff on Sunday has not been determined, but both the flight data recorder and cockpit voice recorder have been recovered. Here’s what we know, and our live coverage. The crash of Flight 302 killed 157 people from around the world, including professors from Kenya, aid workers from Ethiopia, a career ambassador from Nigeria and a fisheries consultant from Britain. One scheduled passenger from Greece missed the flight by minutes.The plane: Boeing is faced with crisis. At least 23 airlines, largely in China, removed from service the Boeing model, the 737 Max 8, involved in this crash and a similar one five months ago, of a Lion Air flight in Indonesia that killed 189 people. In the U.S., the Association of Flight Attendants urged the Federal Aviation Administration to review the model, 350 of which have been delivered around the world.Max 8 jets typically make more than 8,500 flights per week. These are the airlines that fly them.Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain flew to Strasbourg, France, to try to rescue her unpopular withdrawal plan from the E.U. She secured new legal pledges, but it was unclear whether the concessions from the E.U. would be enough to prevent another defeat of her deal in Parliament today. What next? If her plan is again defeated, Mrs. May has promised to offer a vote on whether Britain should leave the E.U. without a deal — a situation that could brutally upend Britain’s economy and one that a majority of lawmakers oppose. If they decide against that, they would then be allowed a vote on whether Britain should request an extension of its negotiations with Brussels.If Mrs. May can limit the size of any defeat today, she might even be able to hold a third, final vote on her plan just before the scheduled departure from the E.U. on March 29. Related: A protest by customs officers in France has delayed Eurostar trains and backed up trucks for miles, providing Britain with a taste of a post-Brexit world.  Labour Party: The British opposition party, which is losing both Remain and Leave voters while facing serious accusations of institutional anti-Semitism, is in crisis.The country’s electric system has been down for five days, plunging most of Venezuela into sporadic darkness and threatening social collapse.Food is spoiling in a country with not enough of it. Looting and protests have broken out, and desperate patients have been begging doctors to be kept alive. Since Venezuela’s largest power producer went down on Thursday, no date has been set to restart the plant — the source of 80 percent of the country’s electricity. Finger-pointing: President Nicolás Maduro blames U.S. sabotage and cyberattacks for the blackout, without providing evidence. Energy experts and Venezuelan power sector contractors dismissed that explanation, instead citing mismanagement and corruption.Other developments: The Treasury Department penalized a Moscow-based bank that it accused of helping Mr. Maduro’s government evade American sanctions. A few hours later, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo gave a sarcasm-laced speech accusing Cuba and Russia of propping up Mr. Maduro. On Tuesday, he announced the removal of all American diplomatic personnel from the U.S. Embassy in Caracas because of worsening conditions in the country. Raheem Sterling, one of the finest English players of his generation, has become part of the global conversation about racial equality led by athletes like Colin Kaepernick and LeBron James. After a fan screamed a racial obscenity at him at a Premier League match in December, Sterling responded with a pointed Instagram post. In an interview with our reporter, he expanded on themes of racial abuse and racist tropes the British news media uses to describe him.“It is a stereotype of black people: chains and jewelry, bling and money,” he said. “I just wanted people to pause and think.”Afghanistan: As the Taliban’s peace talks with the U.S. in Doha, Qatar, entered an extraordinary third week, the group pressed its offensive in a western province, killing 16 Afghan National Army soldiers and capturing 40 — an entire company.U.S.-China trade war: In high-stakes negotiations with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, President Trump’s strategy of relying heavily on his own personality and ability to read people failed. The same strategy faces a serious test with China’s president, Xi Jinping.Turkey: The country is officially entering a recession, with government figures showing two consecutive quarters of falling economic growth. The currency has tumbled and investor concerns are rising, a damaging combination for President Recep Tayyip Erdogan ahead of crucial elections at the end of the month.Algeria: Yielding to weeks of protest in the tightly controlled country, Abdelaziz Bouteflika, the 82-year-old ailing president who has ruled for 20 years, announced that he would not seek a fifth term in office — but he also canceled the election scheduled for April, raising questions about how long he would remain in power.U.S. budget: The record $4.75 trillion proposal President Trump sent to lawmakers has no chance of passage. Instead, our Washington reporters write, it serves as a declaration of Mr. Trump’s re-election campaign priorities: $8.6 billion for the construction of a border wall, a 5 percent increase in military spending and deep cuts to domestic programs.Tesla: Days after its chief executive, Elon Musk, announced that the carmaker would shut most of its dealerships, Tesla reversed course, saying it would keep “significantly more stores open” and raise most of its vehicle prices about 3 percent worldwide.Super bloom: Forest fires followed by heavy rains in California this year have spurred colorful wildflowers to blossom across the state, turning arid landscapes into explosions of purples, yellows and greens.The internet: The memes, Wikipedia pages and emails that you look at every day travel to your device via nearly 750,000 miles of extremely thin cables strung across the ocean floor. Now a few tech giants, notably Google, are working to lay their own cables to keep pace with demand for faster and faster data speeds.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: With spaghetti carbonara, the main goal is creaminess.Expensive smart home gadgets are still niche and of limited use. Smart lights, on the other hand, are useful to just about everyone.Wheelchair users offer tips on air travel.Charles Boycott couldn’t buy food. He couldn’t find employees. He could hardly walk down the street in peace.Boycott, born on this day in 1832, wasn’t the first person shunned as a form of protest, but it’s his name that signifies the practice.In 1880, residents of County Mayo, Ireland, were facing potential famine after several failed harvests, and many could not pay their rent. Boycott, the land agent for a wealthy nobleman, was responsible for evicting those on his employer’s 40,000 acres. When he tried, the Irish National Land League suggested nonviolent protest. Boycott’s neighbors shunned him. Stores declined to serve him, his laborers quit and jeering mobs followed him.Boycott’s plight attracted international attention, including front-page articles in The New York Times.Boycott left Ireland, but his name remained, reportedly popularized by a priest who thought “ostracize” would confuse common people.Within months, The Times was using it to describe events elsewhere in the world.Aodhan Beirne wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Knife crime on the rise in Britain, a new strategy at Facebook and the sordid market for Hitler paintings. Here’s the latest: Knife crime is rising for the fourth straight year in Britain — there were 43,000 such offenses in the year ending Sept. 30, 2018 — though over all it has declined markedly since the mid-1990s. Two recent fatal stabbings of 17-year-olds have refocused national attention on the problem and created a political crisis for Prime Minister Theresa May. The opposition Labour Party is blaming austerity for the rise in knife crime, and Mrs. May’s own home secretary, Sajid Javid, has clashed with her, demanding emergency increases in police funding.Analysis: There are more than 20,000 fewer police officers today than in 2010, and many now spend hours doing the work once done by mental health agencies that have been cut back or eliminated. But analysts largely agree that the data does not connect rising crime to diminished police presence. Instead, they point to austerity cuts to social services, like youth centers and interventions for children who are expelled from school. Looking ahead: Mrs. May said she would hold a summit in the coming days and meet with victims.The U.S. imported more goods than ever last year, bringing its trade deficit with the rest of the world to $891.3 billion.President Trump has long been fixated on narrowing the trade deficit, which he believes is a measure of whether other countries are taking advantage of the U.S. Though few economists share that view, the new figures suggest that by his own metric, Mr. Trump is failing.Reasons: The increase in the amount of imported goods was driven in part by a broader economic slowdown and the strength of the U.S. dollar, both of which weakened global demand for American exports. The U.S. imported a record amount of goods from China, despite Mr. Trump’s tariffs on billions of dollars’ worth of Chinese goods. American exports to China fell nearly 50 percent in December. U.S.-Europe trade talks: Negotiators are deeply at odds. The Trump administration has insisted that any deal must address American farmers’ access to the European market, but the E.U. says agriculture had always been off the table by agreement. The competing narratives have made it difficult to even begin talks, with Mr. Trump dangling the possibility of further tariffs in mid-May.  After years of scandals surrounding user privacy, the world’s largest social network will prioritize private and encrypted communication between users, shifting away from its founding principles of public sharing and an open platform.“I believe a privacy-focused communications platform will become even more important than today’s open platforms,” Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said in a blog post.Details: Mr. Zuckerberg said he planned to spend the years ahead building systems and products that create a type of “digital living room” where people can communicate privately across all of the company’s networks — Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger. He was vague on how long that would take or how private, encrypted communications would affect Facebook’s bottom line. In other business news: Tesla is shutting down most of its stores — just three months after a sprint to open new locations — in an effort to cut costs at a time when investor confidence in the company and its founder, Elon Musk, is wavering.In the last 10 years, experts say, a seedy niche market has grown around rising demand for art by Hitler. With experts in no rush to offer authentication, and his undistinguished style easy to copy, fraud appears to have flourished. Now German prosecutors are stepping in. Last month, they searched Weidler’s auction house in Nuremberg and confiscated scores of paintings as part of an investigation into forgery and fraud, and there was an earlier raid at the Kloss auction house in Berlin. An auction by Weidler’s of a few works recently went ahead anyway, and our reporter attended. Background: With 63 works impounded and an estimated 100 already sold, Weidler’s has handled a curiously large number of “A. Hitler” works, experts say, especially given how few are likely to exist. Hitler did most of his painting before World War I, after he was rejected from art school. Once in power, he ordered the works collected, and he may have destroyed some of the worst misfires. North Korea: The country’s deepening economic trouble may propel it to return to the negotiating table, experts say — or resume weapons tests to force a deal. Sexual assault: Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, told a hushed Senate hearing room that she had been sexually assaulted multiple times while serving her country.Brazil: As millions of Brazilians enjoyed the last few hours of Carnival, Jair Bolsonaro, the far-right president, posted a video on Twitter of one man urinating on another in public, which he called evidence of the festivities’ increasing debauchery.Solomon Islands: An oil spill in the South Pacific is spreading just outside a World Heritage site, threatening the coral reef ecosystems there. Iran: The lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh had defended women arrested for defying Iran’s head-covering rule. Now Ms. Sotudeh, 55, has been convicted of security-related crimes in a secret trial and could face a “very lengthy sentence,” a human rights group reported.Italy: To the frustration of U.S. and E.U. officials, the country appears poised to accept Chinese infrastructure investment that is part of a drive to advance China’s global interests and influence. Carlos Ghosn: The former Nissan chairman has been released on bail, a relatively rare feat in Japan, but he faces steep odds in his trial on charges of financial misconduct: Japanese prosecutors have a 99 percent conviction rate with indicted defendants.Virgin Atlantic: The British airline said that female flight attendants would no longer have to wear makeup or skirts.Ireland: Thanks to a tip, the police in Dublin recovered a mummified head believed to belong to an 800-year-old Crusader knight. A week earlier, it had been stolen from a medieval church crypt in the city. Switzerland: The star of the Geneva International Motor Show this week is a one-of-a-kind Bugatti supercar that has already sold for $19 million, reputedly the highest price ever paid for a new automobile. Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Match sweet, tangy citrus with peanuts and avocado for a satisfying salad.Tours by and for women have grown in popularity. From a polar bear cruise in Norway to a cultural retreat in Calgary, here are four destinations to consider.Lighting, textiles, throw pillows and smells: There are ways to style a room on a budget; all you really need is a bit of imagination and patience.If you’re about to open a can of something tasty, thank the French. And the British.In the late 1700s, Napoleon was on the move, invading Italy, Austria and Egypt. Feeding his enormous armies was a problem — he needed a way to keep food from spoiling.A confectioner, Nicolas Appert, spent years coming up with a successful process. He placed fruits, vegetables and meats in glass bottles, corked and wired them, then boiled the bottles for hours. He didn’t know he was killing microbes — he just knew that the more heat and less air, the better.By 1810, Napoleon’s government handed him a 12,000-franc prize and required him to publish a book, with the catchy title “The Art of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances for Many Years.”Glass, unfortunately, breaks. It was the British who soon developed the tin can.James K. Williamson wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A fight has broken out between TPG and Bill McGlashan, the senior executive caught up in a huge college bribery scandal, over how he left the $103 billion investment giant, Michael de la Merced of DealBook reports.Mr. McGlashan had initially been put on leave by TPG after being accused of collaborating with William Singer, who ran the college preparatory business at the center of the scandal. Prosecutors say that Mr. Singer advised the financier to claim that his son had learning disabilities, and that Mr. McGlashan paid $50,000 to Mr. Singer’s charity.TPG said it fired him for cause yesterday. “We believe the behavior described to be inexcusable and antithetical to the values of our entire organization,” the firm said in a statement.TPG told employees and partners that it learned about the accusations against Mr. McGlashan only after prosecutors unsealed their case, according to an internal note reviewed by DealBook.But Mr. McGlashan said that he had already resigned. “I am deeply sorry this very difficult situation may interfere with the work to which I have devoted my life,” he wrote in a note.Emails between Mr. McGlashan and top TPG executives, provided by his spokesman, appear to confirm that. Mr. McGlashan emailed his resignation at 1:02 p.m. yesterday, according to the correspondence. At 2:03 p.m., Jon Winkelried, one of TPG’s co-C.E.O.s, replied, acknowledging receipt of the resignation — but he also included a notice of termination.At 2:20 p.m., Mr. McGlashan responded, “I am perplexed by your attempt to terminate me because, as you acknowledged in your email, you had already received my resignation.”It’s unclear what is at stake financially for Mr. McGlashan in terms of his TPG severance. In his email, Mr. Winkelried wrote to Mr. McGlashan, “We will be in touch to advise you of the economic consequences of the termination of your employment.”A spokesman for TPG declined to comment on the emails.More: The man who tipped off authorities to the college admissions scandal was reportedly a financier who was being investigated in a securities fraud case. And here’s a reminder why paying bribes to get your child into college is a federal crime.Last week, Mark Zuckerberg announced that Facebook would pivot toward privacy. With two of the company’s top executives leaving just days later, it appears the change has had an immediate impact.The two executives — Chris Cox, Facebook’s chief product officer, who is widely regarded as the company’s No. 3, and Chris Daniels, the head of WhatsApp — announced yesterday that they were to leave the company. Their departure comes “after disagreements with Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive, over the social network’s future direction,” according to Mike Isaac of the NYT.“The differences stemmed from Mr. Zuckerberg’s asserting control over his company and its apps — Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger — by rolling out a plan to integrate the services into a single privacy-focused platform, according to six people involved in the situation,” he adds.Several executives at Facebook feared that knitting together the apps could take a toll on the popularity and growth of their individual products, according to Mr. Isaac. They were also reportedly worried that they could lose autonomy and power. Traces of those sentiments could be seen in a public statement issued by Mr. Cox.“Facebook has become Zuckerberg’s company now more than ever,” Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion writes. “Whether that’s good for the company or for the company’s billions of users — we’ll see.”In the wake of two fatal crashes within five months that involved its 737 Max airplanes, the company is reeling.Boeing will suspend delivery of its 737 Max jets, it announced yesterday, but continue to produce them. It currently builds 52 aircraft a month, many of which are Max models, and entirely shutting down production would prove costly.But the policy may only last so long. Boeing’s production facility in Renton, Wash., has only limited capacity for storing the airplanes, according to the WSJ. Boeing may, however, be able to apply for special permits to fly the planes to other storage sites, according to Reuters.Meanwhile, big questions hang over the Max’s software. Pilots from Southwest Airlines and American Airlines requested software updates for some of the 737 Max’s automated systems last year, reports the NYT. They were promised updates within six weeks, one pilot said, but they have still not arrived. Similarities between the two recent crashes point to potential problems with the automated system that requires the update.And the U.S. Air Force has also lost trust in Boeing. In a case unrelated to the Max debacle, Air Force officials said that quality control issues with a new aerial refueling tanker caused it to suspend deliveries in February.British lawmakers yesterday voted to postpone the country’s departure from the E.U., but narrowly failed to wrest control of the Brexit process from Prime Minister Theresa May’s government, write Ellen Barry and Stephen Castle of the NYT.“Mrs. May fended off — by just two votes — a remarkable power grab by lawmakers frustrated at months of political deadlock that has left the country in limbo with just 15 days to go before its scheduled departure from the bloc. They later voted by 412 to 202 for a motion that means that Britain will almost certainly not leave the E.U. as scheduled on March 29.”“What remains unclear now is how long the delay will be. Mrs. May plans to hold a third vote on her unpopular plan for withdrawal, despite have suffered two staggering defeats on it already. If the prime minister should succeed in a third attempt, she would then request a short delay — no more than three months — from E.U. leaders.”“But the motion noted that should her plan go down to defeat once again, Mrs. May might have to ask European leaders for a much longer delay, with unknown consequences.”More: Brexit’s importance to the global economy may have been overstated.Tulane’s Corporate Law Institute, a conference held every spring in New Orleans, is where the mergers-and-acquisitions world gathers to talk shop. Usually, it’s about how good business is — but a sense of unease has intruded this year’s festivities, Michael de la Merced of DealBook reports.Bankers and lawyers should be celebrating. Last year’s $4.2 trillion in global announced deals was the third-best year ever, according to Citigroup. Nearly every industry enjoyed a rise in deal-making.And M. & A. should keep rolling on. Mark Shafir, the co-head of mergers and acquisitions at Citigroup, and others at the conference noted that takeover financing remains cheap, shareholders seem to support sensible deals and shareholder activists are continuing to push companies into transactions.But “there is no doubt that we are in a much less bullish environment for M. & A. than a year ago,” Mr. Shafir said. Among the pressures on deal-making:• There are fears about a potential recession, the ongoing trade wars and the persistent worry that the stock market will suffer like it did late last year.• Regulators are a big issue too, especially the concern that they could be used as political cudgels. One of the big topics at the conference was the growing importance of overseers like Cfius, the American government panel that reviews cross-border deals for national security concerns.• And then there’s the natural cycle of deal-making. Booms tend to be followed by big drops in volumes, and this cycle has gone on longer than most, Mr. Shafir said.The Connecticut Supreme Court cleared the way for a lawsuit against the companies that manufactured and sold the semiautomatic rifle used in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012, Rick Rojas and Kristin Hussey of the NYT report.The ruling allows a case, brought by victims’ families, to go around the immunity that Congress granted gun companies to shield them from litigation when their weapons are used in a crime. That leaves open the potential for Remington, which made the rifle used in the attack, to be held liable.Lawyers for the families argued that advertising campaigns for guns appeared to be “courting” troubled young men, like Adam Lanza, who carried out the Sandy Hook shooting. In a 4-3 ruling, justices “found that the sweeping federal protections did not prevent the families from bringing a lawsuit based on wrongful marketing claims,” Mr. Rojas and Ms. Hussey write.“The decision represents a significant development in the long-running battle between gun control advocates and the gun lobby,” Mr. Rojas and Ms. Hussey add. And it could chart a “possible legal road map for victims’ relatives and survivors from other mass shootings.”President Trump appears to have reeled in his claim on Wednesday of being “not in a rush whatsoever” to reach a trade deal with China.“We’ll have news on China. Probably one way or the other, we’re going to know over the next three to four weeks,” Mr. Trump told reporters yesterday, according to CNBC. He added that China had been “very responsible and very reasonable.”Such optimism may have been helped along by the news that China made “last-minute changes to a proposed foreign-investment law,” in an attempt to “address U.S. complaints about forced technology transfer,” according to the WSJ. Intellectual property concerns have been a major part of the trade dispute between America and China.But a final agreement is still some way off.  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said yesterday that a proposed meeting between Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China won’t happen this month because there is still more work to do. Sources tell Bloomberg it could happen in April.Elon Musk last night unveiled a new seven-seat compact sport-utility vehicle called the Model Y, Neal E. Boudette and Raymond Zhong of the NYT write:• “The Model Y will be available beginning next year, the company said, at prices ranging from $39,000 to $60,000, depending on the model, with a $2,500 deposit.”• “A long-range version will be able to drive 300 miles on a single charge, it said, while the $60,000 Performance model will have a top speed of 150 miles per hour.”• “‘It has the functionality of an S.U.V., but it will ride like a sports car,’ Mr. Musk said. ‘This thing will be really tight in corners.’”The unveiling “comes as Tesla confronts sales challenges,” Mr. Boudette and Mr. Zhong write. Sales of the Model S and Model X have been flattening, and its push to sell the Model 3 for $35,000 remains shrouded in uncertainty as the company works out how to cut costs to make that pricing possible.Andrew Weissmann, one of Robert Mueller’s top deputies, is said to be leaving the special counsel’s office.Lee Fixel, a partner at Tiger Global Management, is leaving the hedge fund in June.The meat-substitute start-up Impossible Foods hired Dennis Woodside, who was Dropbox’s C.O.O., as its president.Tesla named Vaibhav Taneja as its new chief accounting officer.Goldman Sachs plans to cut 65 jobs because of “economic” factors.Deals• Uber reportedly plans to publicly disclose its I.P.O. prospectus in April. (Reuters)• A federal judge has ordered a hearing on April 5 to consider the government’s settlement allowing CVS’s takeover of Aetna to proceed. (Reuters)• Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase said that European banks need to merge with cross-border rivals to compete globally. (Bloomberg)• SmileDirectClub, which sells at-home teeth-straightening kits, has reportedly picked JPMorgan to lead its I.P.O. this year. (Axios)Politics and policy• The Senate voted to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency over a border wall. Trump’s response was “VETO!” — which would be the first of his presidency. (NYT, @realDonaldTrump)• The House voted 420 to 0 to demand that Robert Mueller’s forthcoming report be released publicly. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, blocked a similar motion in the Senate. (NYT)• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that he “can’t speculate” on how the White House will respond to Democratic requests for President Trump’s tax returns. (Politico)Tech• Spotify’s C.E.O. warned that the streaming service would need to raise prices if Apple continues to take a 30 percent fee from companies who use its App Store. Apple said that its policies were fair and that Spotify was trying to bolster its financial results. (FT, NYT)• Facebook blamed a “server configuration change” for disruption to its services this week — a stark reminder that even powerful internet companies can still be crippled by human error. (NYT)• The E.U.’s competition commissioner is reportedly set to issue Google with another antitrust fine relating to its AdSense business next week. (FT)• Huawei’s C.F.O. wanted to quit her job just before she was arrested in Canada, according to the company’s founder. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Shares in G.E. jumped 2.8 percent on Thursday despite its warning of falling profits and a description of 2019 as a “reset” year. (WSJ)• Economists have lowered their forecasts for U.S. employment and economic growth in the first quarter. (WSJ)• China’s slowdown is spreading from factories to offices, and its second-highest official has promised corporate tax cuts and deregulation to ease the problem. (NYT)• The S.E.C. accused Volkswagen of undertaking a “massive fraud” over its diesel emissions scandal. (NYT)• How TV shows like “Succession” and “Billions” depict the lifestyle of the 1 percent. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Erin GriffithSAN FRANCISCO — Riley Newman, a former head of data science at Airbnb, set out in mid-2017 to raise a venture capital fund that would invest in a multitude of tech trends.But he quickly realized that potential investors were not interested in that kind of fund. Instead, all they wanted to hear about were his former Airbnb colleagues and whether they might start their own companies.“It was, ‘Yeah, all that stuff is fine, but Airbnb, right?’” Mr. Newman, 36, said. “Airbnb was where we had a competitive edge on the market.”So Mr. Newman and his partners at Wave Capital adjusted their pitch: They said they were creating a fund to invest specifically in Airbnb employees who were planning to leave the company to become entrepreneurs. It worked. He and his partners quickly secured $55 million and now are preparing to make a flood of investments after the $31 billion home rental start-up goes public sometime in the next year and employees cash out their shares.“We know they are planning to start companies,” Mr. Newman said of Airbnb employees, adding that in the last week alone he had heard from four who left to pursue their entrepreneurial dreams.Everyone else in Silicon Valley seems to know it, too. As Lyft, Pinterest, Postmates, Slack and Uber — among some of this decade’s most prominent start-ups — get ready to list on the stock market, investors are preparing to write checks to a new generation of companies created by their workers.It’s part of Silicon Valley’s often-incestuous circle of life. The start-up world projects a meritocratic image, but in reality, it is a small, tightknit club where success typically hinges on whom you know.In this model, employees of tech start-ups frequently leave the companies once they have been enriched by their firms’ initial public offerings. Then networks of alumni from these companies — called mafias — support their peers’ new businesses with hiring, advice and money.The cycle goes back to at least the 1950s, when Fairchild Semiconductor, one of Silicon Valley’s earliest successes, was started by a group of disgruntled Shockley Semiconductor employees called the Traitorous Eight.Decades later, early employees of PayPal, known as the PayPal Mafia, are more famous for their successes after leaving the company — many of which they collaborated on with one another — than for their initial breakthrough in digital payments. The group includes Elon Musk and Peter Thiel, as well as the creators of YouTube, Yelp and LinkedIn.Silicon Valley is now anticipating new mafias connected to Uber, Airbnb and their brethren after the companies go public.“It’s going to trigger a massive explosion in entrepreneurship,” said Howard Lindzon, an entrepreneur in Phoenix who invests in five to 10 venture capital funds a year. He said he particularly wanted to put money into funds with connections to the Uber and Airbnb networks.Venture capital firms are already hiring former employees from Uber and other I.P.O.-ready companies to get a foothold in their networks. Some of the fiercest recruiting has been of Uber executives, with venture firms including Sequoia Capital, GV, Javelin Venture Partners and Redpoint Ventures all adding former employees from the ride-hailing firm to their ranks.One recruit was Andrew Chen, who worked at Uber as head of rider growth and left the company last year. He has since joined the venture firm Andreessen Horowitz as a general partner and hosts quarterly dinners for Uber alumni turned founders.Mr. Chen, 36, estimates that two dozen venture-backed start-ups have come out of Uber so far. Andreessen Horowitz has recently invested in two, which have not been announced.“Those are the prime start-up investing opportunities,” Mr. Chen said.The problem is that venture firms might create a brain drain from the likes of Airbnb and Uber if they keep luring the companies’ workers to start new companies. Talent, after all, is a precious commodity in Silicon Valley.Jonathan Golden, who worked as a director of product at Airbnb and who joined the venture firm NEA last year, said Airbnb was fine with his plans to invest in former employees. He said he had discussed his intentions with Airbnb’s chief executive, Brian Chesky, before he left the company in 2017.“I’m not actively trying to have people leave Airbnb,” Mr. Golden said. “But if someone is going to leave, I want to be supportive of them, and Brian is supportive of them as well.”Nick Papas, an Airbnb spokesman, said, “We’re always sad when talented people move on, but it’s been great to watch so many of our former colleagues succeed.”Uber declined to comment.In February, Annie Kadavy, a former Uber executive who is now a venture capitalist at Redpoint, announced an investment in Ike, a self-driving truck company created by — who else? — ex-Uber employees.Ms. Kadavy, 33, who left Uber last year, said her network of former ride-hailing colleagues would help her find and vet deals. In addition, it would help find talent to bring to other start-ups that Redpoint has invested in.“If you’re a person leaving a company, who are you going to ask about what company to join next?” she said. “Your friend who works at a venture firm, because their job is to have a point of view on a bunch of different businesses.”In February 2018, Dan Hill and Michelle Rittenhouse, longtime Airbnb employees, felt the entrepreneurial itch and quit. They had a general idea to start a company that would make it easier for people to donate to charity, but not much else.The details didn’t matter to Wave Capital, which wanted to invest in them. “These are people we know can build great products,” said Mr. Newman. “They know us, they trust us. We know them, we trust them.”Within a few weeks of leaving Airbnb, Mr. Hill and Ms. Rittenhouse had secured $2 million — including from Wave Capital — for Alma, their newly formed company focused on philanthropy.Entrepreneurs typically make dozens of pitches over several months to raise financing. But Mr. Hill said the relatively quick fund-raising for his start-up was not a surprise.“We already had a strong relationship,” he said. “So when we pitched the idea for Alma and our initial plans, it was an easier conversation.”It’s a common story among former employees of hot start-ups. Andrew Chapin, who previously worked at Uber, also said it wasn’t hard to round up $3.75 million last October for Basis, his new mental health start-up, thanks to his reputation among the Uber crowd.“When you look at V.C., there is a lot of pattern matching and trying to act on that, so if you worked at Uber, you must be O.K.,” Mr. Chapin, 31, said. “I didn’t have to do a lot of pitching.”It helps that many of his former colleagues are now millionaires, having cashed out their shares in private stock sales.A syndicate of several hundred former Uber employees are even investing in start-ups together. Josh Mohrer and William Barnes, early Uber employees who left in 2017, said they used a private email list to manage the syndicate’s deal selection, adding a few new people to the list each week as they “graduate” from the company. The group has backed around a dozen start-ups at a pace of around one a month, they said.To stay on top of all the new companies emerging from Uber, Mr. Mohrer and Mr. Barnes said, they have organized reunions of former employees in cities around the world, using a Facebook group with more than 1,000 members.The pair also plan to raise an investment fund dedicated to backing Uber alumni under the banner of Moving Capital, according to three people familiar with the project, who asked to remain anonymous because the details are private.How will Silicon Valley’s new mafias be different from those in the past?The Uber and Airbnb networks are part of a generation that pioneered the on-demand “gig economy” and everything that came with it. That means many fought real-world policy issues in cities, as opposed to primarily dealing with the digital world.“There are just not that many places to find people who have seen that kind of scale,” said Ryan Graves, Uber’s former senior vice president of global operations and a member of the company’s board.Each city that Uber, Airbnb, Lyft or Postmates expanded into created a new set of operational, regulatory and business challenges. Regulators balked. Rival business operators resisted. Neighbors protested. And people abused the platforms, over and over.Uber managers ran each city like a mini-start-up. “If you were the general manager of San Francisco or of Atlanta, you were the C.E.O. of your region,” Mr. Chen said. “It led to a really entrepreneurial approach from everyone.”The thorniest challenge for Uber alumni may be showing that they have learned from the company’s ugly 2017, when its toxic culture of harassment, discrimination and ethical lapses was exposed.Blaine Light, a former Uber employee, said he had taken the importance of creating an inclusive culture to heart. Half of the employees at Qwick, a 20-person start-up in Phoenix that he joined as a co-founder in 2018, are women, and the staff includes a mix of races, backgrounds and sexual orientations. Mr. Light said he emphasized a culture of humility.“Uber people, in general, are looking to take what we’ve learned and make something better this time,” he said.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misspelled the given name of one of Wave Capital’s partners. She is Sara Adler, not Sarah.Follow Erin Griffith on Twitter: @eringriffith.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. President Trump’s impending political war, China’s aggressive ambitions in Africa, and Nissan’s unexpected popularity in Britain. Here’s the latest: The shift of power in Congress and news reports are combining to confront President Trump with the prospect of a protracted and intense political war for survival “that may make the still-unresolved partial government shutdown pale by comparison,” writes our chief White House correspondent.News reports: A Times report detailed how, after Mr. Trump fired James Comey as F.B.I. director, the bureau became so concerned by the president’s behavior that they took the aggressive step of opening a counterintelligence inquiry into whether he had been working on behalf of Russia.And The Washington Post reported that the president had taken extensive steps to conceal his conversations with Russia’s President Vladimir Putin over the past two years.Congress: Democrats in the House will, on Tuesday, grill former Attorney General William Barr, who has been nominated by Mr. Trump to assume his old office, about his approach to the special counsel, Robert Mueller. Next month, they’ll question Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen.The response: Mr. Trump attacked the F.B.I. and its former top officials on Twitter over news of the investigation and denied The Post’s report.The partial shutdown is now the longest ever gap in American government funding, surpassing the previous record of 21 days under the Clinton administration in 1995.President Trump is still digging in on his demand for money for a wall at the southern border, though he has backed away from declaring a national emergency. House Democrats refuse to accede.Impact: Here’s a visual look at the shutdown’s far-reaching consequences for the 800,000 federal workers who are going without pay.The roots: Decisions made in the 1970s helped lay the groundwork for today’s dysfunction.Another angle: The British Parliament is all but certain to vote down Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan on Tuesday, leaving the country’s withdrawal from the E.U. mired in uncertainty. Our journalists examine how the crises afflicting two venerable, historic democracies can impact the whole world. China’s investments in Africa are central to President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road initiative. The Trump administration sees it as an aggressive debt-trap scheme aimed at extending Beijing’s political influence around the world.Case study: In 2016, an American consortium of oil and gas executives from General Electric put in a bid to build a $4 billion oil refinery in Uganda that could be the largest in East Africa. It faced long odds against the competition, two Chinese energy companies with deep pockets, Beijing’s support and significant pull with the Ugandan government.Why it matters: The Ugandan case demonstrates the difficulties western governments face as they try to push back against China. In October, the Trump administration set aside $60 billion in financing for global projects — though that is still a fraction of what Beijing has pledged to spend.In Kabul, Afghanistan, dozens of boys are held at a juvenile detention center as national security threats, charged with planting, carrying or making bombs and trying to become suicide bombers.The Times, which was granted exclusive access to the prison a few months ago, found that many bear deep cuts and bruises — some self-inflicted, others from the bombs they are said to have detonated. None admit the full range of the crimes they’re accused of.“The Taliban made me fight for them,” said one. “The local police beat me to force me to confess,” said another.The problem: So far, counseling the boys to steer them away from extremism hasn’t seemed to work. So what are the authorities to do with them at the end of their sentences, when their added years could enable them to cause worse mayhem? Huawei: The Chinese telecommunications giant fired an employee who was arrested in Poland on charges of spying for Beijing, the latest diplomatic tangle for the company after the arrest of its chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, in Canada.Syria: The U.S. military started withdrawing some equipment from the conflict as part of President Trump’s order to wind down America’s presence there, amid growing confusion and mixed signals over the pullout.Saudi Arabia: The young Saudi woman who fled from her family and spent a week lobbying for her freedom from Bangkok’s international airport arrived safely in Canada, where she was granted asylum. Her case has brought the status of Saudi women and the difficulties of escaping the kingdom into sharp focus.From Opinion: U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is in Saudi Arabia to meet with the crown prince and discuss the killing of the dissident Jamal Khashoggi. A Saudi woman living in Belgium argues that Mr. Pompeo should also bring up the fate of jailed female political prisoners — like her own sister.Nissan: In 1991, the Japanese automaker created a small batch of the quirky Figaro model and never even exported it out of the country. But today, it enjoys immense popularity in Britain.Indonesia: A woman who recorded her boss’s lewd phone call was fired and eventually jailed, while his career flourished. The case, whose final appeal is before the Supreme Court, has become a very public example of the country’s lack of sexual harassment protection for women.Who is MacKenzie Bezos? A novelist who, as the wife of Jeff Bezos, played an integral part in getting Amazon started. And now, after 25 years of marriage, she could be awarded one of the largest divorce settlements to date.SpaceX: Elon Musk’s rocket company is cutting 10 percent of its work force in what the company said was preparation for the “extraordinary challenges ahead.” With its remaining 6,000 workers, the company plans to move forward to create space-based internet and launch a capsule to carry NASA astronauts to the International Space Station.Beauty of the beasts: The extravagant splendor in the animal kingdom is pushing biologists to rethink Darwin’s theory of evolution.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Start the week with a comforting bowl of Tuscan farro soup.How to be writer? There’s no shortage of advice from famous writers, from J.K. Rowling to William Faulkner.Never miss another super moon. Or solar eclipse, or meteor shower. Sync your calendar with the solar system.On Wall Street, it’s “earnings season.”Before your eyes glaze over, here’s what that means — and why it’s more interesting than usual.We’re about to see how corporate America did in the past three months.It’s the first chance for investors to hear from chief executives since the market went haywire in December. A big reason for that sell-off was concern about the economy and corporate profits.In the “preseason,” Apple warned that fewer people in China were buying iPhones than it would like, and American Airlines said it wasn’t getting as much revenue from every passenger as it wanted.Such details help gauge the health of the economy, and that’s where the trouble can begin. If too many chief executives start to warn about problems ahead, investors could see their worst fears confirmed — and stocks could start to fall again.Maybe don’t check your 401(k) until this is over.Mohammed Hadi, our business news director, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" Virgin Hyperloop One is testing a system that would put passengers in pods hurtling through vacuum tubes. Other companies are moving ahead with similar plans.The tube used for unmanned testing by Virgin Hyperloop One north of Las Vegas. The system aims to move people and cargo through tubes in wheel-less pods. CreditCreditJoe Buglewicz for The New York TimesSupported byBy Eric A. TaubMOAPA, Nev. — California just decided to sharply scale back its plans for a high-speed rail artery meant to transform travel up and down the state. But in the desert outside Las Vegas, the transportation ambitions still seem limitless.Here, engineers working for Virgin Hyperloop One are testing a radically different type of mass transit: one that aims to move people and cargo in small wheel-less pods in a vacuum tube at speeds that could exceed 600 miles per hour. Today’s swiftest rail travel, at top speeds less than half as fast, would become a quaint anachronism.The company, which counts Sir Richard Branson’s Virgin Group as a minority investor, is one of several in the United States, Canada and other countries developing hyperloop technology. The concept was promoted by Elon Musk, of electric-car and private-rocket renown, and then offered by one of his companies as open-source technology available to all. It works by propelling pods using magnetic levitation through a low-pressure, near-vacuum tube.The low pressure minimizes friction and air resistance, greatly reducing the power needed. And because the pods travel in a tube, they’re not subject to shutdowns due to harsh weather, like snow or polar vortexes.We’ve seen this concept before. Libraries used to send book requests to the stacks in pneumatic tubes. Until 1984, a similar network whisked messages around Paris. And a series of underground tubes once dispatched mail between Manhattan and Brooklyn.The concept was even tried with people for three years in New York’s subway. Beginning in 1870, Beach Pneumatic Transit, named for its developer, ran a passenger capsule moved by pneumatic power under Broadway in Manhattan, from Warren Street to Murray Street.Virgin Hyperloop One, based in Los Angeles, began testing here in 2017 and is now doing so with a full-scale test track; its main competitors, Hyperloop Transportation Technologies, also in Los Angeles, and TransPod, with headquarters in Toronto, expect to build their own test tracks this year. So far both are working with computer simulations.In the barren desert 35 miles north of the Las Vegas Strip, Virgin’s 1,640-foot-long, 11-foot-high tube has been used for hundreds of runs, with an empty pod that in one test accelerated to 240 m.p.h. Plans call for the commercialized system to reach a continuous 510 m.p.h., with 670 m.p.h. possible.To avoid making anyone sick, the system would take three minutes to accelerate to that speed, and the train would need to travel six miles to turn 90 degrees, said Ismaeel Babur, one of the company’s senior civil engineers.Because of its slow takeoff rate, “you’ll feel 30 to 40 percent of the acceleration compared to an airplane,” Mr. Babur said. The trip will be so smooth, he added, that “coffee won’t slide even at 600 miles per hour.”Each of the three companies has raised tens to hundreds of millions of dollars and developed its own patented approach to long-distance mass transit. TransPod, with $52 million in capital, has preliminary agreements to build a six-mile test track for a route that would eventually span the 180 miles between Calgary and Edmonton in Alberta, as well as a shorter track near Limoges, France, for one of several French routes under consideration.Hyperloop Transportation Technologies, which has raised $42 million, is in the design phase for a 1,100-yard test track in Abu Dhabi and is preparing to build a 350-yard test track in Toulouse, France.Virgin, which has raised $295 million, is in the developmental stage with projects in India and Ohio. Last month, the Indian state of Maharashtra declared the company’s proposed hyperloop system between Pune and Mumbai as an official infrastructure project. Construction on a seven-mile test track could start this year, said Jay Walder, the company’s chief executive.Passenger operations could begin by the middle of the next decade, cutting travel time between the cities to 30 minutes, one-fifth the current duration.“The more we see, the more we find the technology to be compelling,” said William Murdock, executive director of the Mid-Ohio Regional Planning Commission, a nonprofit governmental transportation agency. Virgin Hyperloop One is working on a proposed system to connect Chicago, Columbus and Pittsburgh.“Columbus is a freight logistics hub,” said Mr. Murdock, who hopes that the entire hyperloop route could be built in the next 10 years. “To commute quickly between Chicago and Pittsburgh would be fantastic.”All three companies contend that because of energy cost advantages over other forms of transportation, a system will be able to break even in a decade after full-scale operations begin. Not only will commuters be able to get from place to place faster, but doing so will allow people to comfortably live far from their work, giving access to educational, cultural and health services normally out of reach.Hyperloop developers expect pods to carry not only people but also high-value, low-weight cargo, offering an alternative to carriers using high-cost air transport, like FedEx and Amazon. In addition, they say, automobile manufacturers and others relying on just-in-time delivery of parts to keep inventory costs down would be able to get parts from distant locations.While such visions are a distant dream, hyperloop companies have attracted key talent and enthusiastic municipalities. Mr. Walder, Virgin Hyperloop One’s chief executive, is a former head of New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority and managing director at Transport for London. Before taking the job in November, he said, he asked Mr. Branson — who stepped down as Virgin Hyperloop One’s chairman last year — whether he was “still fully committed to this.”“Not only was he committed, but he thought it was one of the most exciting things he’s ever done,” Mr. Walder said. Hyperloop Transportation Technologies is taking a more holistic approach, looking to reinvent not only transport but also the way companies work and the way such a venture can be sustainably funded.The company has only 50 full-time employees, but they’re augmented by 800 people around the world who work strictly for stock options, in exchange for putting in at least 10 hours per week on the project.“This model gives us a fairly low burn rate,” said Dirk Ahlborn, the company’s founder and chief executive. “But there are communication challenges. Some teams work amazingly, and others do not perform at all. You’re competing with their free time, their wives and their babies. It’s definitely a different way to do things.”Another difference from other transit systems will be the passenger experience. To keep the structural integrity of the near-vacuum tube, there will be no windows. “People would get sick looking at trees passing by at 600 miles per hour,” said Sébastien Gendron, TransPod’s chief executive.Instead, developers are looking at various exterior simulations that could be projected on large screens throughout the pod. “We could create a depth effect through video projection,” Mr. Gendron said. Even movies could be shown. Mr. Ahlborn believes that showing advertisements and providing other services to travelers could provide additional income that would hold down fares. “My vision is that the ticket model is not the best model,” he said. “We can enable a marketplace of services and generate a lot of money.”But before such musings turn into reality, hyperloop proponents must prove that their systems work, that they’re safe for people and cargo and that they’re affordable.“From the point of view of physics, hyperloop is doable,” said Garrett Reisman, professor of astronautical engineering at the University of Southern California and a former astronaut on the International Space Station.The experience will be no different from riding in an airplane with the shades drawn, and technical issues around maintaining the vacuum within the tube will be solved, he believes.Instead, hyperloop projects will face more mundane challenges.“Getting innovative things through the regulatory and certification environments is very difficult,” Mr. Reisman said. “This could face an uphill battle in the U.S.” Which companies will succeed, if any, is anyone’s guess. Yet each main player is rooting for the others, knowing that one failure will put a pall over the technology as a whole.“The worst thing that would happen to us is if Virgin Hyperloop One is not successful,” Mr. Ahlborn said. Whether any company can garner the necessary finance is still an open question, leading Mr. Ahlborn to wonder if any one can ultimately go it alone. “Maybe there could be a consolidation between our companies,” he said.Rick Geddes, professor in the department of policy analysis and management at Cornell University, sees a different challenge. “The biggest problems for hyperloop will be securing rights of way and permitting,” he said.Still, Professor Geddes believes that hyperloop systems will become a reality, as the time is ripe.“There’s a sense that things are stale; we’re just adding to existing modes of transport,” he said. “Time is more and more a valuable commodity. The transportation industry is ready for a new way of thinking.”An earlier version of this article misstated the time needed for a Virgin Hyperloop One train to accelerate to 600 miles per hour and the distance of a 90-degree turn at that speed. According to the company, the acceleration would require three minutes, not 30, and the turn would cover six miles, not 42.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Nellie BowlesSYDNEY, Australia — Atlassian is a very boring software company. It develops products for software engineers and project managers, with hits like Jira (for software project management and bug tracking) and Fisheye (a revision-control browser). And who could forget Confluence (an enterprise knowledge management system)?So why are its two founders household names in Australia?Because Scott Farquhar and Mike Cannon-Brookes, both 39, are the country’s first start-up-to-I.P.O. tech billionaires. And because in the last year, they have started to make noise.Until recently, they largely stayed out of the public eye, even as Atlassian grew to become a $20 billion company. Now, as Australian politics tilt toward the right on global issues like immigration, cybersecurity and climate change, they are emerging as new political voices, getting in Twitter spats and lobbying Parliament.The other reason they are now household names: In 2017, Mr. Farquhar bought the most expensive home in Australia, a historic Sydney estate that sold for 73 million Australian dollars, or $52 million.In December, Mr. Cannon-Brookes broke that record when he closed on the house next door.I met the Atlassian founders for a few days in Sydney. Over brunches, a ferry ride and a birthday party, they told me about their new roles in public life, and what it feels like to be the first tech billionaires in a country where wealth usually comes from mining or banking.“People are interested now in what we’re saying,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said. “We have a voice. We have a sense of responsibility.”The two met as undergraduates at the University of New South Wales, where both were in a business scholarship program sponsored by Australian companies. They were encouraged to join one of those companies after graduating, but instead the two friends founded Atlassian, shocking their teachers and friends.It was 2002. Doing a start-up was unusual.“It was disbelief, really — why would you not go with a sponsor company?” said Christine Van Toorn, the program’s director and a lecturer at the school.They relied on credit cards for initial financing. They advertised by going to developer meetups, buying beer for the room and putting Atlassian stickers on the bottles.The company took off almost immediately.“Within three years we went from pariah to sponsoring the program ourselves,” Mr. Farquhar said.The products they created were cheap and easy to use. They sold by word of mouth (the company employs few sales representatives). But Silicon Valley paid them little mind. When their friend Didier Elzinga, founder of Culture Amp, was at a venture capital dinner in Palo Alto, Calif., an investor asked why people should care about Atlassian.“And I said, ‘O.K. Tell me a company in the Valley that listed with a $5 billion market cap and where the two founders own 75 percent,’” Mr. Elzinga said. “They didn’t need Silicon Valley.”First they confused Silicon Valley. And then they confused Australia.“The orthodoxy amongst the Australian tech companies is to stay away from politics,” said Alan Jones, the founder of M8 Ventures, an Australian venture capital firm. “And then now there’s these guys.”Their approach to policy is an extension of how they run a business together and live next door to each other: by relying on their differences.[Sign up for the Australia Letter to get news, conversation starters and local recommendations in your inbox each week.]Mr. Cannon-Brookes’s father was the chief executive of Citigroup Australia. His son wears his hair long, usually under a trucker hat. He has a shaggy beard and swears casually.Mr. Farquhar’s roots are more working class: His father worked at a service station, and his mother worked at McDonald’s. He is quieter, with close-cropped, sandy brown hair.He was recently upset that he hadn’t finished a marathon in under four hours (it was four hours and two minutes). When his green smoothie almost overflowed its glass (but didn’t), Mr. Farquhar immediately thought of lenses: “Positive meniscus!” he exclaimed.In their political activism, Mr. Cannon-Brookes is often the public face, posting on Twitter and talking to the news media, while Mr. Farquhar focuses on Canberra, the capital — where this week he caused a stir by condemning a new law under which tech companies can be forced to build tools that help law enforcement get around encryption in their products.“Sometimes we try the front door, sometimes we need to blow up the side door,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said of their political activities.Both became more interested in Australian politics after policies took a sharp turn toward the parochial, with the governing coalition abandoning efforts to address climate change and stoking fears around immigration.That presented a problem for a company that needs to hire talented engineers, often from abroad. And so initially, the founders’ main goal was basic: to make Australia more tech-friendly and its politicians more tech-aware.First, they hosted a coding class for elected officials and started working to get engineering into more curriculums.“It was like organizing the world’s worst wedding,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said.Still, it earned them some respect. “They do some wonderfully creative things,” said Julie Bishop, who was deputy leader of the Liberal Party from 2007 to 2018. “Mike and Scott have an enormously influential role to play.”Australia just passed Switzerland as the richest country in the world as measured by household median wealth, and Mr. Cannon-Brookes thinks its reliance on mineral wealth has made the country slower to make tech investment or long-term economic change a priority.Mr. Cannon-Brookes is especially passionate about climate change. As Prime Minister Scott Morrison has walked back Australia’s renewable energy ambitions, Mr. Cannon-Brookes has become a staunch critic.“You’ve made me mad & inspired me,” he told the prime minister on Twitter, adding an expletive for emphasis.Along with goading Elon Musk to bring Australia the world’s largest battery to help solve its power problems, Mr. Cannon-Brookes has been gathering others in the Australian business community to push Canberra. Peter Dutton, the home affairs minister, has told the Atlassian founders to “stick to their knitting.”“His knitting is running the country well, and he doesn’t seem to be doing it,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said.He personally invests in alternative fuel and food sources, and he is especially interested in controlled-environment agriculture. “My wife and I have a big belief in the future of insects as a food source,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said over brunch (granola, not insects).Mr. Farquhar tends to focus on the issues aligned with Atlassian’s fortunes: cybersecurity (he says the new encryption law has cost the company customers) and immigration (he argues that the government is hurting recruitment and innovation by aiming to cut Australia’s immigration intake).It is not at all clear whether he can influence the encryption law; potential amendments are due to be debated in Parliament this week, and no changes are expected.But on immigration, Atlassian’s founders have moved the needle. After Australia’s skilled worker program cut several technology roles (including web developer) from its approved visa categories, Mr. Farquhar and Mr. Cannon-Brookes lobbied Parliament to change course and add more opportunities for international recruitment.On a ferry ride to work, Mr. Farquhar pointed out the two founders’ houses, huge estates set into the lush Sydney hillside. Before they bought the properties, plans had been made to tear down the houses and develop the lots.Mr. Cannon-Brookes and his family moved in a few weeks ago. He and Mr. Farquhar created a hole in the fence so their children could play together. One day a week, the founders pick up their children at school together and take the ferry home.“It’s a changing of the guard,” Mr. Farquhar said, referring to the houses. “They were owned by two newspaper families. It used to be newspaper dynasties, and now it’s technology dynasties.”It was a symbolically significant transition. The Fairfax family, a newspaper dynasty, had owned the properties since 1901.“It was an establishment family, a very conservative family, very committed members of the Congregational Church, and they were mainstays of Sydney’s exclusive eastern suburbs,” said Bridget Griffen-Foley, a professor of media at Macquarie University in Sydney. “So it’s quite symbolic that the fortunes of the old media dynasty have been so affected by digital disruption, and now you’ve got tech billionaires taking over.”This is a big change for Australia, where software entrepreneurs do not have the kind of cultural sway they have in the United States and elsewhere.“Most of the mansions owned by the neighbors are offshore billionaires or really old Australian money — mineral money, gold rush money,” said Mr. Jones, the venture capitalist. “It’s been 100 years since most of the families on Sydney Harbor made their money.”Money notwithstanding, running a growing tech company in Australia is a challenge, the founders said. Recruitment is hard. Two-thirds of Atlassian’s work force is in San Francisco.The founders have formed a cohort of friends with big tech companies outside Silicon Valley, including Daniel Ek, the Swedish chief executive of Spotify, and Ryan Smith of Qualtrics, who is based in Utah.“We’ve got all the same problems,” Mr. Cannon-Brookes said.And so every two years the Atlassian founders have hosted a private retreat, inviting every Australian start-up valued over $100 million, which is about a dozen. They hike and fish. Families are invited. The goal is to encourage camaraderie and share best practices.It is one of many reasons the two men say they would not leave Australia for Silicon Valley.“I know the U.S. very well, and I know Australia very well,” Mr. Farquhar said. “And I think we’ve got it better here.”Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Campbell RobertsonCLEVELAND — When things overheat, corrode and stop working, that is when they call in Gustavo Costa.It’s a rare expertise, critical to everything from space travel to fracking, and it keeps him in steady demand as a contractor at NASA’s John H. Glenn Research Center. It has also put Dr. Costa, a United States citizen since August, within reach of his ultimate dream: working directly for NASA, a government agency as well-known as Coca-Cola back in his little Brazilian hometown.These days, though, Dr. Costa does not make the five-mile trip from his house to the center. He is at home, already forced to consider jobs elsewhere because NASA has all but shut down for reasons that don’t seem to make much sense. Politics — even overheated, corroded, dysfunctional politics — are outside of Dr. Costa’s expertise.“What are they going to do next?” he asked on a cold morning in his quiet living room. “Do they realize what damage they’re causing?”The Civil Service relies to a large degree on good will. No matter how vital high-skilled federal workers are to the functioning of government, there are usually companies willing to offer them much higher salaries — double or even triple in some cases — on top of the free lunches and stock options. As student debt soars and private sector opportunities multiply, the sheer allure of public service — “the mission,” as NASA researchers often put it — is what keeps a lot of talent in the government.The longest shutdown in the country’s history is eroding that good will, already wearing thin after years of pay freezes, unpredictable budgets, and disdain from even the White House for government workers as swamp creatures or worse.Long after the government reopens, this is the damage that could last. If public service loses its allure, it will make it harder to recruit and hold onto the experienced and talented, those who can design spacecraft but also the people who battle epidemics, predict hurricanes and keep the food supply safe.Steve Reaves, a Federal Emergency Management Agency employee who leads the union for FEMA workers, said he knew firsthand of six experienced people who had left the agency since the shutdown began. Two went to BP, the oil giant.[Read more on how the shutdown is affecting federal workers in every state.]“They’re relying on the pure good intentions of the higher skilled work force,” said Matt Linton, a computer security specialist in California who worked for NASA’s Ames Research Center for 14 years. “And that’s what they drain down the most quickly in these stupid shutdowns.”This is a concern across federal agencies and departments — and even, strikingly, at NASA, the gold standard of government agencies, which seemed in the past to have no trouble attracting anyone with the right stuff.The essential pitch is spelled out in large metal letters at the entrance to the Glenn Research Center, a half-moon-shaped cluster of buildings just northwest of the Cleveland airport. “Research and technology,” it reads, “for the benefit of all.”In normal times, around 3,000 people are at work at Glenn, roughly half of them contractors and the other half civil servants, designing subsonic aeronautics or recreating the atmosphere of Venus. For the past few weeks it has been nearly empty.The workers at Glenn are mostly waiting, drawing down savings, wondering about the state of their untended lab work, reading about Chinese spacecraft landing on the moon and pondering the appeal of the public good when a good chunk of the public seems to have little use for it.“All these people seem to be celebrating our misfortune,” said Michael Kulis, a NASA chemist, who had seen comments on social media portraying federal workers as layabouts enjoying their vacations.Or, as one administration official said in an op-ed shared on Twitter by the president, the workers offered “nothing of external value” and were doing “errands for the sake of errands.”A Navy veteran who is the son of a police officer, Dr. Kulis is committed to staying at NASA, but finds all the scorn for public servants disheartening. “We didn’t get Ph.D.s just to sit around,” he said.As a place to work, NASA still measures up against the corporate world, where venture capital comes and goes, big contracts are lost, funders get impatient. Even SpaceX, Elon Musk’s private space travel company, recently announced it was laying off around 10 percent of its work force. There are pensions and benefits in government work, and there is job stability. Or at least there used to be.Recruiters and others at NASA say that even before the shutdown, the agency has not been the draw on top talent it once was. A graduate student interested in aerospace engineering is as likely to be wearing a SpaceX logo as the old blue-and-red NASA meatball.Interns come to Glenn, learn what they can and leave for Lockheed Martin, Pratt & Whitney or Blue Origin, Jeff Bezos’ spaceflight company.The shutdown is not making recruiting any easier. The already slim stipends for postdoctoral fellows, invited to spend their early careers at NASA, have run dry, leaving them at the mercy of online fund-raising. Jeffrey Severino, a college student from the Bronx who planned to spend his winter break developing algorithms on a paid internship at Glenn, spent it instead delivering takeout.“I still want to work for them,” he said of NASA, though he is now asking what he would do if a shutdown were to happen again.[Read more on federal workers taking odd jobs to make money during the shutdown.]Now, even scientists and engineers several years into their careers at NASA are talking of leaving before things get worse.“People have forgotten what public institutions do and the roles that they play,” said one young NASA research scientist, who dreamed of working at NASA as a child in a family of immigrants, and discovered a new planet before he got out of high school.The scientist, who did not want to give his name out of fear of political reprisal, spent much of the past year preparing for an ambitious climate-related project to start in early January, based on his own technology and involving aircraft, boats and an international team of scientists. The shutdown canceled it. He is now working as a Lyft driver to pay the bills, an arrangement that can keep him afloat for only a few more days.“I don’t want to give up on my country, but if you’re good at science and that’s what you do that’s what’s going to happen,” he said by phone on the way to a job interview. “There are opportunities in Canada that have a lot of great scientific potential.”Governments are among the few places with the money and the latitude for research into fundamental questions without immediate or obvious application.This is the kind of research rarely found on Wall Street or even Silicon Valley, where science is typically tied to the bottom line.“We can’t land humans on Mars, reverse climate change or cure cancer without it,” said Lee Stone, a NASA research scientist and a vice president of the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers, a union that represents thousands in the government and private sector.When asked in an email about the shutdown’s effect on NASA, an agency spokeswoman, Katherine Brown, had an automatic reply that she was in furlough status and unable to respond.Mr. Linton, the California computer security specialist, had considered himself “a lifer” at NASA. “I felt like my job meant something,” he said.But in the fall of 2013, Congress could not agree about a budget amid a Republican crusade to defund the Affordable Care Act. So, to his astonishment, the government shut down for two weeks.He was the only one in his section deemed essential, which meant coming to the center for four hours a day. The rest of the time he was free to think: about the needs of his young family and about the message sent by a government that deems thousands of its employees not valuable enough to do their jobs.A Silicon Valley firm emailed him, asking him to visit in his spare time. He went, learned he could be making double his salary and shortly after the shutdown ended, left government for good.“Before 2013,” Mr. Linton said, “you at least felt like the whole country was behind you when you said, ‘I work for NASA.’ Now it’s absolutely evident that only 40 or 50 percent of the country is behind you and the other 40 or 50 percent think you’re some sort of fiscal drain.”The current shutdown, he said, was proof that he was right to leave when he did.His old colleagues at NASA now see that, too. He has been getting emails from them over the past few weeks, he said. They are asking for references.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)The catastrophic fire at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris yesterday badly damaged the 850-year-old building, but some of France’s richest moguls are stepping up to pay for repairs.Around 500 firefighters battled the blaze for nearly five hours, Adam Nossiter and Aurelian Breeden of the NYT write. By 11 p.m. Paris time, the structure had been “saved and preserved as a whole,” the city’s fire chief, Jean-Claude Gallet, said. But two-thirds of the roof was destroyed and the main spire collapsed. So far, it’s unclear both how the fire started and how much survives of the interior, but nobody was killed or injured, officials said.“We will rebuild Notre-Dame,” President Emmanuel Macron said last night. “Because that is what the French expect.”So far 300 million euros, or $339 million, have been pledged for rebuilding, Bloomberg reports:• François-Henri Pinault, the C.E.O. of the luxury goods conglomerate Kering, and his father, François Pinault, will donate €100 million from their investment company, Artemis.• The Arnault family, which runs the rival luxury goods conglomerate LVMH, responded with a pledge of €200 million, plus its architectural and design resources.If you want to donate, Fast Company explains three ways.More: An algorithmic error by YouTube served up information about the Sept. 11 attacks alongside live video of the fire.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in New York, and Michael J. de la Merced and Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________Two House committees demanded documents about President Trump’s finances from Deutsche Bank, his longtime lender, yesterday.It’s the latest effort to gain insight into Mr. Trump’s financial records, as the president resists demands for access to his tax returns and other documents.Lawmakers also subpoenaed records from JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Citigroup related to potential money-laundering in Russia and Eastern Europe, the NYT reports.“The potential use of the U.S. financial system for illicit purposes is a very serious concern,” Representative Maxine Waters, the chairwoman of the House Financial Services Committee, said in a statement.Deutsche Bank says it’s cooperating. “We remain committed to providing appropriate information to all authorized investigations in a manner consistent with our legal obligations,” a spokeswoman for the firm said.But the Trump Organization condemned the moves. Eric Trump, one of Mr. Trump’s sons, called the subpoenas “an unprecedented abuse of power.” A lawyer for the company said it was considering options for preventing Deutsche Bank from complying.More: Two Pulitzer Prizes were awarded yesterday to reports investigating Mr. Trump’s finances. The NYT won for its investigation into how the Trump family avoided paying a half-billion dollars in taxes, while the WSJ was recognized for revealing hush-money payments made to two women who claimed to have had affairs with Mr. Trump.This year promises to be one of the biggest for public offerings in recent memory. And that’s created a scheduling problem, Erin Griffith and Michael de la Merced of the NYT report.If all the big tech I.P.O. candidates went to market, they could issue over $100 billion in new stock, according to Renaissance Capital. At the peak of the dot-com era, in 2000, the figure was $96 billion.I.P.O.s are already running into each other. Pinterest wanted to go public before Good Friday — and wound up scheduling its offering on Thursday, the day also chosen by the video conferencing company Zoom. Uber ensured that there were at least 30 days between Lyft’s prospectus filing and its own.“I do think there’s going to be some potential indigestion,” Kathleen Smith of Renaissance Capital told the NYT. Barrett Daniels of Deloitte added, “There could end up being I.P.O. fatigue because it is going to be overwhelming.”Uber is a special concern. Its offering is expected to to be the biggest in years, raising $10 billion — which bankers working on rival offerings fear will suck the air out of the markets that week. They’re giving it a wide berth.Perfect timing could be important, because some bankers worry that a single bad debut could taint the batch. Lyft’s shares popped straight after their I.P.O., but two weeks later they’re down 22 percent. We’ll see if that is destined to hurt other unicorns when Pinterest goes public this week.France and Belgium refused to support a new round of trade negotiations between the European Union and the U.S. yesterday, suggesting a bumpy road ahead for those discussions.It’s a striking break in European unity. Trade measures normally pass unanimously. The European Commission had initially proposed a new round of trade talks in January.French and Belgian officials cited climate change, and specifically the U.S. withdrawal from the Paris climate accord, as an objection.But the talks are expected to proceed anyway, with a focus on eliminating tariffs for industrial goods, excluding agricultural products, and making it easier for U.S. and E.U. companies to meet the other side’s technical requirements.Expect agriculture to be a point of contention. Congress and Mr. Trump both say it has to be addressed; but Cecilia Malmstrom, the E.U.’s chief negotiator, has called it “a red line for Europe.”U.S. companies are disclosing the pay ratio between bosses and median workers in proxy filings for the first full year since the S.E.C. demanded the metric. The FT and Equilar, a compensation consultancy, dug into the numbers, looking at the 100 largest companies by revenue that had published 2018 data by April 1, the midpoint of the annual reporting calendar. Three notable findings:• “Of the 100 CEOs, 11 made more than 1,000 times as much as their median employee.”• “Elon Musk was paid 40,668 times more than the median Tesla worker,” though that company was not part of Equilar’s analysis.• “Warren Buffett earned less than seven times as much as the median Berkshire Hathaway employee.”Skepticism remains about the usefulness of the metric. It might cause a day or two’s bad publicity, critics say, but it will have much less effect on companies’ compensation decisions than their financial results.German prosecutors filed aggravated fraud charges yesterday against Martin Winterkorn, who was Volkswagen’s C.E.O. when it deceived regulators about emissions levels, Christopher Schuetze of the NYT writes.• “The charges are the first criminal indictment in Germany against an individual in connection with the diesel scandal.”• The indictment “includes charges of breach of trust, tax evasion and false certification, either directly or by aiding in such crimes. If convicted, Mr. Winterkorn could be sentenced to up to 10 years in prison.”• “In charging Mr. Winterkorn and four Volkswagen managers whose names were not released, the public prosecutor’s office in Braunschweig tied the five to events reaching as far back as 2006.”• “The timeline is significant because it rejects initial claims by Volkswagen that senior management became aware of the so-called defeat devices used to cheat emissions tests only after being confronted by the United States environmental authorities in 2015.”• “Even after paying $33 billion in fines and settlements related to the scandal, the carmaker continues to face legal challenges and investigations from authorities in the United States and Germany.”Best Buy named Corie Barry, its chief financial officer, as its next C.E.O. The current C.E.O., Hubert Joly, will become executive chairman.The P.R. firm Prosek Partners plans to announce this morning that it has hired David Wells, who most recently led marketing and communications for Goldman Sachs’s consumer and investment management division, as a partner.Daniel Daniel, a former senior investor at BlackRock, has left to start Twenty Acre Global, an investment firm that will take stakes in tech companies.BlackRock has reportedly moved to hire Tang Xiaodong, most recently a senior executive at GF Securities, to oversee its mainland China operations.Deals• AT&T sold its 9.5 percent stake in Hulu back to the streaming service at a $15 billion valuation. (WSJ)• Deutsche Bank reportedly expects to lose up to $1.7 billion in revenue if it merges with Commerzbank, when customers reduce their exposure to the combined lender. (Bloomberg)• When Anadarko agreed to sell itself to Chevron for $65 a share, it reportedly cut off talks with Occidental Petroleum about an offer in the mid-$70s. (CNBC)• Salesforce agreed to buy its philanthropic arm, which also sells the company’s software to nonprofits, for $300 million. (Business Insider)• Venture capitalist firms foresee a windfall in astrology start-ups. (NYT)Politics and policy• Senator Bernie Sanders released 10 years’ worth of tax returns yesterday, revealing that he’s in the top 1 percent of taxpayers. He defended his wealth, but demurred on whether he should be paying more. (NYT)• President Trump’s personal lawyer urged the Treasury Department not to release his client’s records. (NYT)• The Interior Department’s new secretary, David Bernhardt, faces an ethics investigation by its inspector general. (NYT)• Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Democrat of New York, reportedly declined meetings with top banking executives after harshly criticizing the industry. (Fox Business)• The Justice Department said a redacted version of Robert Mueller’s report would be released on Thursday. (NYT)Boeing• American Airlines plans to give its pilots more simulator training for 737 Max jets. (WSJ)Trade• U.S. efforts to tighten sanctions on Iranian and Venezuelan oil might push up energy prices. (NYT)• OPEC has gotten unexpected help from a longtime frenemy, Russia. (WSJ)• President Trump insists that the U.S. will “win either way” in its trade discussions with China. (Reuters)Brexit• Britain’s foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, said a top priority is reaching a Brexit deal in time to avoid the U.K. holding European elections. (BBC)• Germany’s foreign minister says that Britain shouldn’t get another Brexit extension. (FT)• Some British companies are enjoying a pre-Brexit boom — but they’re worried about what comes next. (FT)Tech• Huawei says it has secured 40 commercial contracts to build and operate 5G wireless infrastructure, but it has not discussed 5G chipsets with Apple. Also: China is investigating a Huawei rival, Ericsson, over its technology licensing practices. (Reuters, WSJ)• SpaceX is seeking another $500 million in funding, but there are internal questions about the viability of its plans for a satellite-based internet business. (WSJ)• Ecuador said it had been hit by 40 million cyberattacks since Julian Assange was arrested last week. (AFP)• Big companies thought their insurance covered the 2017 NotPetya cyberattack. Maybe not. (NYT)• Uber is really worth about $60 billion, according to Aswath Damodaran, NYU’s valuation expert. (CNBC)• The first opinions on Samsung’s folding-screen phone? It might just be worth the $2,000 price tag. (Gizmodo)Best of the rest• Lori Loughlin and her husband pleaded not guilty in the college admissions scandal. (Bloomberg)• Citigroup and Goldman Sachs both delivered better-than-expected earnings yesterday, but investors were still disappointed. (Bloomberg)• UniCredit pleaded guilty to U.S. charges that its German division let some Iranian customers violate sanctions. (Bloomberg)• Expectations for America’s first quarter G.D.P. growth are increasing. (Axios)• Greece wants to repay its €10 billion loan from the I.M.F. early. (Sky News)• Supreme Court judges are torn about whether a clothing company’s name is too obscene-sounding to trademark, but united in not saying it aloud. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.The Justice Department partly unsealed a pair of indictments yesterday that accuse the Chinese telecommunications firm of trying to steal trade secrets, evade economic sanctions on Iran and obstruct a criminal investigation into its behavior.The context: The charges come as officials from Beijing and Washington prepare to continue trade negotiations and as the Trump administration tries to shoulder Huawei out of international efforts to build the next generation of wireless networks, known as 5G. The company has denied the claims; a spokesman for China’s industry and information technology ministry called them “unfair and immoral.”The allegations: The U.S. says that Meng Wanzhou, Huawei’s chief financial officer and the daughter of its founder, Ren Zhengfei, participated in a plot to defraud four large banks into clearing millions of dollars in transactions with Iran in violation of international sanctions. American officials say that Huawei tried to impede their investigation by destroying evidence and by moving employees out of the U.S. to prevent them from being called as witnesses. The company, prosecutors say, also stole information about a phone-testing robot called Tappy from T-Mobile facilities in Washington state and encouraged employees to steal other confidential information from competitors.What now: Matthew Whitaker, the acting attorney general, said that the U.S. government wants to have Ms. Meng extradited from Canada, where she was detained last year at Washington’s request and where officials are now on tricky political turf trying to balance American and Chinese interests. The tussle has the industry on edge; an internal assessment from Deutsche Telekom concluded that the 5G rollout in Europe would be delayed by at least two years and cost billions of euros if governments banned Huawei, whose technology underpins much of the current network infrastructure.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The Huawei charges will complicate negotiations on Wednesday that were already expected to be tense.A delegation of dozens of Chinese representatives led by Vice Premier Liu He will meet near the White House with a group headed by Robert Lighthizer, President Trump’s top trade negotiator, and Steven Mnuchin, the treasury secretary. On Thursday, Mr. Liu is expected to meet with Mr. Trump.Mr. Mnuchin said there had been “significant movement” on talks that involved “very complicated issues,” including intellectual property protections and questions of enforcement. The Chinese may offer to increase their purchases of U.S. farm products and energy, and slightly change their industrial policies, while pushing back on demands to eliminate subsidies to favored industries.The parties have until early March to reach an agreement, or else risk an escalation in the trade conflict.Mr. Trump is being pressured by the markets and the corporate sector to deliver a deal. A recent survey found that his trade policies had led more than a third of American manufacturers to raise prices. Yesterday, the chip maker Nvidia and the bulldozer builder Caterpillar both issued warnings about business conditions in China.As Eswar Prasad, the former head of the International Monetary Fund’s China division, notes:“The damaging economic effects of the shutdown and Trump’s desire to score a cleaner win at least on trade could also make U.S. negotiators somewhat more flexible and willing to strike a deal.”The five weeks when much of the government was out of commission cost the U.S. economy $11 billion, nearly a quarter of it permanently lost, the Congressional Budget Office said yesterday.That’s nearly double the $5.7 billion President Trump is seeking for a southern border wall — a project he still wants and is still threatening to shut down the government to get.The damage will be mitigated somewhat as furloughed workers start to receive their back pay, but with the government only funded for three weeks, many federal employees plan to hold off on spending.Here’s another wrinkle: Government statisticians just now returning to work are behind on collecting and analyzing figures on retail sales, manufacturing data, housing statistics and other information. Investors, executives and analysts nervous about signs of weakness in the economy are grasping for details about the labor market, inflation and business spending. And when the Federal Reserve’s policymaking group meets starting today, it will be missing some of its customary guides.Howard Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, told Andrew yesterday that he was not fazed by criticism that his potential presidential bid as an independent could strengthen President Trump’s chances for re-election.“Nobody wants to see Donald Trump removed from office more than me,” Mr. Schultz said at an event in a Barnes & Noble bookstore in New York to kick off his national book tour.Responding to critics: Mr. Trump said in an early morning tweet that Mr. Schultz did not have the “guts” to run, a taunt that Mr. Schultz called “childish.” Michael Bloomberg, another possible presidential contender, condemned independent bids.Hecklers in the crowd: “Don’t help elect Trump,” yelled one protester, who was escorted out of the event in New York. Mr. Schultz was interrupted a second time by a man who chanted, “Health care is a human right.”More: Bill Burton, a former adviser to President Barack Obama, pushed back against criticism over his decision to join Mr. Schultz’s team. And the harsh response on social media to a potential Schultz candidacy could affect the Starbucks brand, according to the Washington Post.Carlos Ghosn, the global auto chief indicted on charges of financial wrongdoing, remains consigned to a small cell after a Tokyo court again denied his bail request. His predicament has turned a spotlight on the Japanese criminal justice system, writes the NYT’s Motoko Rich:The lawyers can detain defendants for more than three weeks before bringing charges, arrest suspects multiple times to extend their detention and interrogate them without their counsel.Some in the West have reacted strongly to the power that prosecutors have wielded. “This is an approach to the rights of accused people that one would expect in a dictatorship, not in Japan,” one critic wrote.BlackBerry named Bryan Palma, a senior vice president at Cisco, as its chief operating officer and president. (MarketWatch)Deals• Unilever acquired the Laundress, a New York-based line of premium cleaning products, as it tries to bolster its high-end home care products. (Reuters)• Edward Lampert, the Sears chairman, says his bid for the retailer will make the company competitive and profitable again, but experts say there’s more to it. (CNN)• Two House panels will hold a joint hearing on Feb. 13 on the proposed merger between T-Mobile and Sprint. (Reuters)• Joe Kaeser, the chief executive of Siemens, said the European Union might be right in blocking his company’s planned rail merger with Alstom. (Bloomberg)• Dropbox agreed to acquire HelloSign, an e-signature software company, for $230 million in cash. (Bloomberg)Politics and Policy• After a long back-and-forth, Speaker Nancy Pelosi invited President Trump to deliver the State of the Union address on Feb. 5. (NYT)• The special counsel Robert Mueller is close to finishing his investigation, Matthew Whitaker, the acting attorney general, announced in a highly unusual confirmation of the state of the inquiry. (NYT)• The Trump administration imposed economic penalties on Venezuela, a punitive step to add to the pressure on President Nicolás Maduro to resign. (NYT)• Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain is to present Parliament with an amended version of her Brexit deal today, but the public seems to be tiring of the apparently interminable saga. (CNBC)Tech• A glitch in FaceTime, Apple’s video and audio calling app, allows iPhone users to eavesdrop on others. (NYT)• The letter that forced Travis Kalanick out of Uber was among a series of files that were unsealed as part of a lawsuit over trade secrets brought by Alphabet’s Waymo. (Bloomberg)• Less than four months after Elon Musk settled fraud charges over his claims that Saudi Arabia was ready to back a buyout of Tesla, the kingdom has hedged most of its 4.9 percent stake in the company to protect against stock price volatility. (FT)• As the money-losing Snap tries to lure and keep users, its Snapchat app is considering what was once unthinkable: permanent posts. (Reuters)Best of the Rest• The California utility Pacific Gas & Electric filed for bankruptcy protection in anticipation of billions of dollars in liability claims for two years of wildfires. (NYT)• Wynn Resorts reached a proposed settlement with Nevada regulators over claims that its executives ignored sexual misconduct claims against Steve Wynn. (WSJ)• A lawyer for John Kapoor, the founder and former chairman of Insys Therapeutics, denied in court that he had any role in the U.S. opioid crisis. (Reuters)• Corporate debt loads have been growing, but household borrowing less so — and that could keep economies from tipping into recession. (WSJ)• Investing in utilities, once seen as safe, boring and modestly profitable, is now considered riskier and more exciting, because of alternative energy, global warming and natural disasters. (Bloomberg)• Andrea Orcel left UBS to join Santander as its chief executive, but then the offer was rescinded because of a compensation dispute. Now he is said to be preparing a legal fight. (FT)• American International Group, the insurance conglomerate, says it is 100 years old. Maurice Greenberg, its former chief executive, disagrees. (WSJ)• Peloton, which sells a high-tech exercise bike for roughly $2,000, is being roasted on social media for the ostentatious symbols of wealth in its most recent ad campaign. (FastCo)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Wednesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The digital pin board company disclosed today that its I.P.O. would value it at less than its last private fund-raising round. That’s a big warning sign for other tech companies that are poised to go public this year.The high range of Pinterest’s I.P.O. would value it at $11.3 billion, below the $12 billion attained from private investors two years ago. In Silicon Valley speak, that’s a “down round” — something companies generally hope to avoid because it undermines confidence.Coupled with early volatility in Lyft’s first days of trading, the Pinterest offering suggests that public market investors are wary of maintaining high valuations for tech start-ups, especially given that many won’t turn a profit for years.It comes as a slew of unicorns are preparing to go public, including Uber (whose I.P.O. was expected to give a valuation as high as $120 billion), the workplace messaging platform Slack and the software company PagerDuty.But there’s some reason not to panic yet. After initially falling below their I.P.O. price, Lyft shares bounced back. Other companies have gone on to do well after down rounds: For instance, the file-sharing company Box is trading well above its debut price two years after its I.P.O. And Pinterest could end up pricing its offering higher if investor demand proves robust during its road show.More I.P.O. news: Though many investors are betting against Lyft’s newly public stock, the high-profile short seller Andrew Left isn’t among them. The Bridgewater Associates founder argued last week that capitalism “needs to be reformed.” Now he has outlined how he would do it:Declare the wealth and opportunity gaps a national emergency. “I have a principle that you will not effect change unless you affect the people who have their hands on the levers of power so that they move them to change things the way you want them to change,” he writes.Devise clear metrics for success. “I’d bring that sort of accountability down to the individual level to encourage an accountability culture in which individuals are aware of whether they are net contributors or net detractors to the society, and the individuals and the society make attempts to make them net contributors.”Redistribute resources to eliminate disparities. Mr. Dalio’s personal recommendations include:• Creating private-public partnerships that would vet and invest in projects that produce both social and economic returns.• Raise taxes on pollution and other causes of bad health.• Impose targeted tax increases on the wealthiest to pay for social welfare programs to bolster economic productivity.Better coordinate monetary and fiscal policies, so that more money ends up in the hands of people who will spend it (the lower and middle classes) as opposed to saving it (the wealthy).The British government has proposed sweeping new powers to regulate harmful content and false information, recommending one of the world’s most aggressive actions to police the internet, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.• A regulator would be given the power to “issue fines, block access to websites if necessary and make individual executives legally liable for harmful content spread on their platforms.”• Terrorism, inciting violence, encouraging suicide, spreading disinformation and cyberbullying are among the topics that companies would be required to address. The rules would apply to social media platforms, discussion forums, messaging services and search engines.• Facebook and Twitter will work with the government, representatives from the companies said.“Actions in Britain and elsewhere signal a new era for the internet. Western democracies have largely avoided regulating online communication,” Mr. Satariano writes. But governments have become more willing to intervene “as evidence mounts that online actions are having harmful real-life consequences by contributing to violence, compromising elections and spreading hateful ideologies.”“In the United States, where free speech is more of a core value than in other nations, there’s been less momentum to regulate internet content,” Mr. Satariano adds. But even in America, there is increasing support for new rules.President Trump is ready to nominate Herman Cain and Stephen Moore — two vocal supporters of his policies — to the Federal Reserve board. Many analysts say such a move would politicize the central bank. Neil Irwin of the Upshot takes a look at what that would mean.Historically, Fed appointees have generally been economic experts who kept their political views out of policy discussions.Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain wouldn’t change much at first. They’d hold two of 12 votes on the Fed’s Open Market Committee, so their ability to swing other governors would depend on their politicking abilities.But over time, the Fed could lose credibility. “The United States’ role as the global reserve currency — which results in persistently low interest rates and little fear of capital flight — is built in significant part on the credibility the Fed has accumulated over decades,” Mr. Irwin writes.The financial world is watching closely. “I think it’s a very big benefit to the U.S. economy and the financial markets that we have a strong and independent Fed, and I hope that continues,” Ed Keon, the chief investment strategist at QMA, told CNBC.Nissan shareholders voted today to remove their former chairman, Carlos Ghosn, from the board altogether, the WSJ reports.• “Much of the meeting was devoted to questions from angry shareholders, with many demanding Nissan executives step down for failing to find alleged wrongdoing.”• “In response to a shareholder who accused Chief Executive Hiroto Saikawa of failing to take responsibility for any of the alleged wrongdoing, Mr. Saikawa said: ‘I never said we didn’t have responsibility. The problem built up over 20 years, and we cannot correct it overnight.’ ”Mr. Ghosn will be replaced by Renault’s chairman, Jean-Dominique Senard. Greg Kelly, who is accused of abetting inaccurate disclosure of Mr. Ghosn’s compensation, was also voted off the board.More: Mr. Ghosn’s wife has appealed to the French government to help her husband.Prime Minister Theresa May sought to rekindle cross-party talks about her Brexit deal yesterday, just days before Britain is due to leave the E.U. without a deal, Benjamin Mueller of the NYT reports:• Mrs. May is seeking a way to persuade members of the opposition Labour Party to back her deal.• But Labour leaders maintained on Sunday “that Mrs. May had not yet bent to any of their demands on the withdrawal.”• “And whatever overtures she makes to Labour, analysts said, she will struggle to guarantee that her successor as prime minister or a future Parliament will not rip up any compromise deal — a major sticking point in the cross-party talks.”Mrs. May will try to get another extension from Brussels this week. What such a delay would look like is undecided: Mrs. May wants a simple extension, while the European Council’s president, Donald Tusk, wants something more flexible. Either way, it will require the support of all 27 E.U. leaders at a summit meeting on Wednesday.If she doesn’t get an extension, Britain may crash out of the E.U. without a deal — or remain in the political bloc.Kirstjen Nielsen resigned as the secretary of homeland security yesterday. She’ll be replaced in the interim by Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection.Warren Buffett urged Wells Fargo, in which he owns a nearly 10 percent stake, to avoid picking a Wall Street veteran as its next C.E.O.Amazon has reportedly hired Rajeev Badyal, SpaceX’s former vice president of satellites, to lead its new satellite internet program.The Wing, the women-focused co-working company, has hired Rachel Racusen from Snap as its vice president of communications.Kathe Sackler and Mortimer D.A. Sackler, members of the family that controls the OxyContin maker Purdue Pharma, are said to have stepped down from the board of the New York Academy of Sciences.Deals• Saudi Aramco has reportedly drawn $30 billion worth of demand for its forthcoming bond offering, which had been expected to raise $10 billion. (FT)• The N.Y.S.E. and Nasdaq are fighting to secure I.P.O. listings by offering goodies like champagne receptions and scoreboard commercials at minor league baseball games. (WSJ)• Deutsche Bank told employees that it remained committed to its U.S. investment banking operations amid its merger talks with Commerzbank. (Bloomberg)• Grab, the Southeast Asia ride-hailing company, plans to raise $2 billion in funding. (Reuters)• Starboard Value called off its proxy fight at Dollar Tree after the company said it would consider new prices for the products it sells. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• Mick Mulvaney, the acting White House chief of staff, said yesterday that Democratic lawmakers will “never” see President Trump’s tax returns. (Hill)• Don McGahn, the former White House counsel, reportedly told Republican senators that Mr. Trump is focused on appointing federal judges who will roll back the power of government agencies. (Axios)• 70 percent of Wall Street executives surveyed about the 2020 elections think that Mr. Trump will be re-elected in 2020. (CNBC)• Attorney General William Barr ordered investigations into whether the F.B.I. and other parts of the Justice Department discriminated on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity. (NYT)Trade• Republicans fear that Speaker Nancy Pelosi may be holding up President Trump’s Nafta replacement in an attempt to kill it. (Axios)Boeing• Boeing is cutting production of its 737 Max jet after two fatal crashes. (NYT)Tech• There’s one screen that tech companies are still fighting to control: the one in your car. (WSJ)• Two college students in Oregon are accused of tricking Apple into replacing nearly 1,500 counterfeit iPhones with genuine ones that they later sold. (NYT)• Facebook hosted at least 74 cyber criminal groups where crooks traded stolen data, according to researchers. (Bloomberg)• And the company reportedly has an infrastructure plan for cutting internet costs in Africa. (WSJ)• Tesla’s board reportedly investigated an allegation that Elon Musk pushed a former employee, but found no evidence that the incident happened. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• The lawyer Michael Avenatti, who is facing extortion charges, released 41 pages of documents that he claims show Nike bribed college basketball players. (CNBC)• Oil companies are investing in carbon-removal technologies. (NYT)• Wall Street is cutting forecasts for U.S. government bond yields. (WSJ)• Southeast Asia might not be the next “factory of the world,” according to Bain and Company. (CNBC)• Modern monetary theory is gaining traction at some of America’s biggest banks. (NYT)• Picking through the trash of Silicon Valley billionaires can be highly lucrative. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with the latest round in the Trump-Pelosi feud, uncounted family separations at the border, and a contentious verdict in a case involving the Chicago police. And it’s Friday, so there’s a new news quiz.The capital now “resembles nothing so much as an unruly sandbox,” one of our White House correspondents writes. “As the shutdown drags on, septuagenarian politicians are squabbling like 7-year-olds.”On Thursday, a day after Speaker Nancy Pelosi asked President Trump to delay his State of the Union address, he denied her access to a military plane for a congressional visit to American troops in Afghanistan. “Obviously,” he said in a letter, flying commercial remained an option.Mr. Trump also canceled plans to send a U.S. delegation to Davos, Switzerland, next week for the World Economic Forum.The impact: The partial government shutdown is in its 28th day, and federal courts are running out of money. They’re expected to be able to continue funded operations through at least next Friday. The Trump administration most likely separated thousands more migrant children from their parents at the southwestern border than was previously believed, according to a government report released on Thursday.The federal government has reported that nearly 3,000 children were forcibly separated from their parents last year under the “zero tolerance” immigration policy. But inspectors from the Department of Health and Human Services found that there was no coordinated tracking system, meaning the total number is “unknown.”Catch up: The separations were a crucial part of the administration’s effort to deter migrant families, many fleeing violence and poverty in Central America, from trying to enter the U.S.President Trump on Thursday endorsed an updated effort to detect and intercept missiles bound for the U.S., evoking Ronald Reagan’s 1983 “Star Wars” program.Details released by the Pentagon suggested something more incremental, aimed largely at destroying small numbers of missiles launched by regional powers, rather than overwhelming strikes from Russia or China.Go deeper: The U.S. has spent more than $300 billion on antimissile projects over the decades, according to one expert. Our video explains the projects’ unimpressive rate of success.Another angle: In his speech on Thursday, the president did not mention the threat from North Korea, long a focus of missile-defense advocates. A North Korean envoy is in Washington today, as part of an effort to set up a second summit meeting between Mr. Trump and Kim Jong-un, the North’s leader.Three police officers were acquitted on Thursday of charges that they had conspired and lied to protect a white officer who fatally shot a black teenager in 2014. Officer Jason Van Dyke, who was convicted in October of the second-degree murder of Laquan McDonald, is to be sentenced today.Background: While in view of a police dashboard camera, Mr. Van Dyke fired 16 shots at Laquan, who was holding a knife. The shooting prompted citywide protests, the firing of Chicago’s police chief and a federal investigation.Geneticists have begun using bones to make sweeping claims about the distant past. But their revisions are making some scholars of prehistory uneasy. That’s partly because some stories sound like the Nazis’ claims of a superior race, but they also play into science’s real-world rivalries. Tesla job cuts: The automaker is reducing its full-time work force by 7 percent as it tries to lower the cost of making its Model 3 sedan, the company’s chief executive, Elon Musk, told employees today.Deadly attack in Colombia: At least 21 people were killed and 68 wounded when a car bomb exploded outside a police academy in Bogotá on Thursday. It had been years since such an attack in the city, which was once terrorized by drug traffickers and leftist guerrillas.Los Angeles teachers’ strike: The city’s school superintendent and the president of the teachers’ union met face-to-face on Thursday for the first time since the walkout began in the country’s second-largest public school system. But negotiations still appeared to be at an impasse.Brexit deadlock is extended: Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain must return to Parliament on Monday with a Plan B for pulling the country from the European Union, after lawmakers soundly rejected her original proposal this week. A vote on the alternative isn’t expected until Jan. 29, two months before the scheduled withdrawal.L train shutdown: Two weeks after Gov. Andrew Cuomo offered a last-minute solution to avert a major New York City subway disruption, it’s unclear when construction will begin or how long it will last. Critics have also raised safety concerns. Snapshot: Above, bullet trains at a maintenance facility in Guangzhou, China, today before next month’s Lunar New Year celebrations and the accompanying travel rush.In memoriam: Mary Oliver, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet, used plain language and minute attention to write about the natural world. She earned wide popularity, and comparisons to Walt Whitman and Robert Frost, although critical reaction was mixed. She died on Thursday at 83.N.F.L. playoff predictions: If our reporter is right about Sunday’s games, you’ll see the Kansas City Chiefs and the Los Angeles Rams in the Super Bowl in a couple of weeks.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Late-night comedy: After a rapper made a rare venture into politics on Instagram, Trevor Noah said: “How cool would it be if Cardi B. somehow ended the shutdown?”What we’re listening to: This clip of a speech by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., recommended by Lynda Richardson, an editor in Travel. “Ahead of the national holiday honoring the assassinated civil rights leader, here he is observing that ‘Power without love is reckless and abusive, and love without power is sentimental and anemic.’”Cook: Cauliflower rice steps in easily for normal rice. Roast it so the edges caramelize. Listen: “Mile High,” from James Blake’s new album “Assume Form,” treats love as a murky, uncertain, only sporadically blissful thing, our critic Jon Pareles writes.Go: Alternative museum tours are examining the collections of British cultural institutions in novel and sometimes radical ways, sharing stories that had largely gone untold.Read: These eight new books are recommended by our editors, including a graphic novel version of Anne Frank’s diary.Smarter Living: Water heating can account for up to 18 percent of a home’s energy consumption, but it’s often overlooked, even by energy-conscious homeowners. There are straightforward ways to increase efficiency, like lowering the temperature on your water heater, using low-flow fixtures and demand-activated pumps, and insulating hot-water pipes.And we have suggestions on what to do with all those spices in your cabinet.The North American International Auto Show in Detroit has lost of much of its cachet as the industry’s focus has shifted from horsepower to high tech.This year’s event, which began this week, hardly resembles the  spectacles of the past.Only a handful of major models are making debuts. Audi, BMW, Mazda, Mercedes and Porsche stayed home.But for many years it was a can’t-miss affair.Chrysler became famous for rollicking presentations worthy of halftime at the Super Bowl.In 1992, it had its new Jeep Grand Cherokee arrive by crashing through a glass wall. (The fun begins in this video at 3:14.) It once presented the Chrysler Aspen S.U.V. by simulating a blizzard.Most memorable was probably the cattle drive.To promote its new Dodge Ram pickup, the company staged one outside the convention center.The new truck emerged from a herd of 120 longhorn, led by cowboys on horseback — in the middle of downtown Detroit.That’s it for this briefing. We’re taking Monday off for Martin Luther King’s Birthday, but the briefing will return on Tuesday.See you then.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for their cultural and Smarter Living tips. Neal E. Boudette, who is covering the Detroit Auto Show for The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is on divisions in the Women’s March movement.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Stackable cookies (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • One of the earliest appearances of the term “publicity stunt” in The Times was in 1922, when a furrier was prosecuted for releasing a fox on Fifth Avenue in Manhattan, to the detriment of the fox. Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday.  (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)Some business leaders are feeling the swift and sharp repercussions of charges issued by federal prosecutors relating to a college admissions scandal, in which wealthy parents were accused of using fraud and bribery to help their children get places at elite schools.• Gordon Caplan, a co-chairman of the global law firm Willkie Farr & Gallagher, was put on leave by the firm yesterday. He may face legal challenges from regulators and his own company, according to the New York Law Journal. He is accused of paying $75,000 to have someone improve his daughter’s score on the ACT exam.• William McGlashan, a partner at the private equity firm TPG, was placed on leave by the company. Yesterday, he stepped down from the board of STX Entertainment, the film studio he helped found. He is accused of having his son’s ACT answers corrected and athletic profile faked.• Manuel Henriquez, the C.E.O. of Hercules Capital, stepped down from that role yesterday, though he remains on the company’s board of directors. He and his wife, Elizabeth, are accused of spending over $400,000 in a scheme for their daughter.More: Inside the pricey, totally legal world of college consultants.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in New York and Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________After days of mounting pressure, the U.S. grounded Boeing’s 737 Max 8 aircraft on Wednesday, reports the NYT.The turnaround came after Canadian and American aviation authorities studied newly available satellite-tracking data. It suggested similarities between Sunday’s crash in Ethiopia and one involving a Boeing 737 Max 8 in Indonesia in October. Boeing’s C.E.O. said the company was “supporting this proactive step out of an abundance of caution.”The cost to Boeing could be huge. Airlines have “begun to demand compensation for their losses during the grounding,” Natalie Kitroeff of the NYT writes. And one analyst estimated that the company may have to spend nearly $1 billion to resolve issues with the 737 Max fleet. It could also face lawsuits from the families of passengers who died in the disasters.“But the bigger financial unknown is whether airlines lose confidence in the Max,” Ms. Kitroeff adds. If that happens, orders for the 737 Max — the company’s best-selling jet — could dry up, handing an advantage to Boeing’s European rival, Airbus, which makes a similar plane, the A320neo. But outright cancellations of orders seem unlikely, because airlines typically put down large deposits.The British Parliament voted last night to oppose the prospect of Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. without an agreement with the bloc, writes Stephen Castle of the NYT.“The vote was another harsh blow” to Prime Minister Theresa May, Mr. Castle writes. “A critical part of her strategy has been to play for time and use the fast-approaching threat of a chaotic, disorderly and economically damaging exit as leverage.”“Mrs. May said that if lawmakers can support a deal in the next few days, she could request a Brexit delay until June 30 to put it in place,” he adds. “But that appears unlikely. Parliament rejected the agreement she negotiated with the European Union in a humiliating 432 to 202 vote in January, and defeated it again on Tuesday, 391 to 242.”“Without an approved agreement, a longer extension would be needed, forcing Britain to take part in European Parliament elections in May. That suggests Mrs. May might make one more effort to get her unpopular plan through Parliament, threatening hard-line Brexit supporters that, if it fails, she will seek a long delay that could, potentially, mean Brexit never happening.”Brookfield Asset Management announced yesterday that it had agreed to buy most of Oaktree Capital Management for about $4.8 billion, creating an alternative asset manager giant that will rival the likes of Blackstone.Brookfield and Oaktree would control $475 billion of assets under management, including debt, according to Reuters. Blackstone, the industry leader, has at least $650 billion including debt, according to a spokesman of the firm who spoke to the news agency.“The deal is a bet by Brookfield, which currently focuses on private equity, real estate, infrastructure and renewable power, on the prospects for investing in debt, which makes up around 70 percent of Oaktree’s assets under management,” Reuters adds.The purchase is “the latest sign of how Toronto-based Brookfield has quietly come to dominate the alternative asset management industry,” according to the FT.Just one day after the White House’s chief trade negotiator, Robert Lighthizer, said that a result from trade talks with China would be agreed “before too long,” President Trump undermined his efforts.“I’m not in a rush whatsoever,” Mr. Trump told reporters yesterday, according to Bloomberg. The WSJ reports that Mr. Trump said that President Xi Jinping of China knows that the U.S. would walk away from a poor deal, and that he said, “China very much wants to make a deal.”This could be a negotiating tactic. “Trump can use this for leverage and could also be mindful he would be criticized for a weak deal,” Christopher Adams, a former official in the Treasury Department and U.S. trade negotiator in Beijing, told the WSJ.But it suggests there will be no deal in March. Mr. Trump spoke in February of a possible summit meeting at his Florida resort, Mar-a-Lago, with Mr. Xi this month to sign an agreement. But unidentified officials told the WSJ that an April date now looks more likely.More: President Trump’s former economic adviser, Gary Cohn, told the podcast “Freakonomics” that Mr. Trump’s trade adviser, Peter Navarro, is in his view the only Ph.D.-holding economist in the world who thinks that tariffs do not hurt the economy. The former C.E.O. of Starbucks, Howard Schultz, still hasn’t officially decided whether to enter the 2020 presidential race. But during a speech at Miami Dade College yesterday, designed to drum up support for such a bid, Mr. Schultz did outline what his independent presidency might offer. WaPo reports his remarks:• “I would not sign any legislation — none — into law that does not have bipartisan support. … We need to be candid with the American people and admit, yes, that both sides have good ideas if we work together.”• “The courts have become yet another battlefield in the ongoing war between Democratic and Republican leaders. … These battles have undermined our faith in the rule of law and the impartiality of the entire judicial system. All of this has to change.”• “I will do everything I can to fight for the center, where the vast majority of Americans stand.”A grand jury in New York has subpoenaed records from at least two prominent smartphone and device makers that had entered into partnerships with Facebook, gaining access to the personal information of hundreds of millions of users, according to the NYT:“It is not clear when the grand jury inquiry, overseen by prosecutors with the United States attorney’s office for the Eastern District of New York, began or exactly what it is focusing on.”“We are cooperating with investigators and take those probes seriously,” a Facebook spokesman said in a statement. “We’ve provided public testimony, answered questions and pledged that we will continue to do so.”“Facebook was already facing scrutiny by the Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission.” And the Justice Department’s securities fraud unit started an investigation last year in the wake of the company’s Cambridge Analytica data scandal.Renault has removed Mouna Sepehri, an ally of its former chairman, Carlos Ghosn, from her role as general secretary and placed her in advisory role. It is part of broader shake-up of the company’s senior management.At Mitsubishi, two other allies of Mr. Ghosn — Trevor Mann, the C.O.O., and Vincent Cobee, the head of product — have resigned.Aurora Cannabis hired Nelson Peltz, the founder of the activist hedge fund Trian Partners, as a strategic adviser.The U.S. Senate confirmed Neomi Rao to take Justice Brett Kavanaugh’s empty seat at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.Deals• Uber is in talks to sell a stake in its self-driving technologies unit to SoftBank and other investors for as much as $1 billion. (NYT)• Purdue Pharma’s C.E.O. said that the company was considering bankruptcy protection as an option as it faces lawsuits over the role of its drug OxyContin in America’s opioid epidemic. (WaPo)• Volkswagen has halted an I.P.O. of its truck division, Traton, until market conditions improve. (Reuters)• Jumia, a pan-African e-commerce services widely thought of as the continent’s first tech unicorn, has filed for an I.P.O. (Axios)Politics and policy• Beto O’Rourke announced that he will be part of the 2020 presidential race. (NYT)• A federal judge nearly doubled the prison sentence of Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, to seven and a half years. (NYT)• The Justice Department is reportedly investigating whether a $100,000 contribution to a political fund-raising committee related to Mr. Trump came from the fugitive financier Jho Low, whom the authorities have tied to the 1MDB fraud scandal. (WSJ)• A bid by the G.O.P. to avoid a showdown between Mr. Trump and Senate Republicans over his declaration of an emergency to build a border wall has failed. (NYT)• House Democrats warned Mr. Trump of a “firestorm” in Congress if he pushes forward with Medicaid cuts. (NYT)Tech• Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram suffered global outages yesterday. Facebook reportedly considered giving advertisers refunds for the problem. (NYT, Bloomberg)• Spotify has accused Apple of abusing its position as gatekeeper of the App Store and violating European antitrust laws. (NYT)• How much will 5G cost you? Verizon says it’ll be about $10 more a month. (WSJ)• The next Silicon Valley mafia will be made up of the millionaires produced by the likes of Uber and Airbnb going public. (NYT)• Elon Musk reportedly became obsessed with rooting out — and destroying — a Tesla whistleblower. (Businessweek)• On topics from airplane engineering to clean energy, President Trump has long encouraged a 1950s approach to technology. (NYT)Best of the rest• The F.D.A. has proposed requiring stores keep flavored e-cigarettes in areas off limits to anyone under 18. (NYT)• Volkswagen is cutting 7,000 jobs as part of its push to focus on electric cars. Ford also said it was cutting an unspecified number of jobs in the U.S. (WSJ, Reuters)• Fiat Chrysler is recalling nearly 863,000 vehicles in the U.S. after some didn’t meet federal emissions standards. (WSJ)• The S&P 500 hit a four-month high yesterday, buoyed by strong economic data. (WSJ)• A new report claims that two-thirds of investors think C.E.O.s are ill-equipped to handle the big challenges of the future. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.High-level delegates from Beijing and Washington are meeting near the White House today for the first of two days of trade talks, but appear to have a great distance left to bridge.Each government has reason to play nice. Evidence is mounting that reciprocal tariffs are hurting both sides, and global markets have been skittish while awaiting a deal.But there are signs that China is unwilling to bend on key U.S. demands involving intellectual property and technology transfer, even as its lawmakers accelerated a vote on legislation addressing foreign investors’ concerns.A pair of indictments revealed earlier this week against the Chinese telecommunications firm Huawei could complicate the discussions, as could disagreements over strategy within the Trump administration’s team.Other factors include:Weakness in the Chinese economy. At least 20 companies reported yesterday that their 2018 earnings would fall short of expectations. The Chongqing Changan Automobile Company, Ford Motor’s primary partner in China, warned of a profit slump  of as much as 93 percent last year. China Life Insurance said its net income may have fallen as much as 70 percent. And Chinese exporters suffered a sluggish start to 2019.Slowing Chinese investment abroad. Net purchases of U.S. commercial real estate by Chinese companies — big buyers earlier in the decade — have slipped to their lowest level since 2012.Worries to the west. The motorcycle maker Harley-Davidson said that tariffs — along with other shifts in its business — left it barely breaking even in the final quarter of 2018. In the European Union, there are concerns whatever happens: If China and the U.S. reach a deal, Mr. Trump might turn his attention to German cars and French wines. If not, China might dump discounted goods into the European market. “We are next in the queue,” said William De Vijlder, the chief economist at BNP Paribas.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The Trump administration’s growth forecast is much rosier than those of economists at the Federal Reserve and elsewhere, who warn that growth is slowing and put some of the blame on the government, writes the NYT’s Jim Tankersley.President Trump’s team has predicted that inflation-adjusted growth will average 3 percent through 2024. Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, said Mr. Trump’s tax and trade policies were working as expected:“Last year looked just like we thought, so we don’t think, going into our next forecast, that there’s a heck of a lot of reason to change our mind about things.”An exceptional year: Growth appears to have exceeded 3 percent in 2018, the first time it has done so in a decade. But many economists attribute that to a burst of fiscal stimulus that isn’t expected to be repeated.Growing consensus: The Congressional Budget Office predicted that growth would slow to 2.3 percent this year and then to 1.7 percent in 2020. Economists at the Fed also forecast 2.3 percent growth this year. Some corporate financial executives are bracing for a recession.More Fed news: Jerome Powell, the Fed chairman, has taken a conversational tone in public comments, but the markets didn’t understand. Investors face three outcomes if the Fed is done raising interest rates, and none of them are good.Apple reported yesterday that it had flat profit and lower revenue in the fourth quarter, which included the holiday shopping season. After years of expansion, the tech giant appears to be entering a period of vulnerability, writes the NYT’s Jack Nicas.Diminishing demand: The company has had some success with new products like the Apple Watch, but they haven’t had the global impact of the iPhone. That was a drag on the company’s earnings.Slowdown in China: Apple is uniquely vulnerable to slowing consumer demand in China, as well as to potential tariffs on Chinese-made products.Security concerns: Customers said a flaw in the iPhone let people eavesdrop on phone calls. The problem was in the FaceTime app, which Apple promised to fix by the end of the week, but it has been criticized for moving too slowly. A lawyer in Houston sued Apple over the glitch.More Apple news: Shares rallied after the company outlined plans for life beyond the iPhone. And it plans to lower prices on some phones outside U.S. to offset a strong dollar.Pacific Gas and Electric filed for a corporate reorganization on Tuesday that “is shaping up to be one of the most complicated and difficult in recent years,” writes Ivan Penn.Facing tens of billions of dollars in claims related to 17 major wildfires in California in 2017, with its equipment under investigation in several other blazes last year, PG&E decided to declare bankruptcy despite having a stable income stream and several offers of financing.Now creditors and suppliers of the state’s largest utility will face off against California officials and fire victims to be paid, while renewable energy companies and climate change activists jockey for position. Lawyers, bankers and consultants are likely to collect hundreds of millions of dollars in fees.This is PG&E’s second bankruptcy in less than 20 years; the first came after California tried to deregulate utilities. Dan Reicher, who was an assistant energy secretary in the Clinton administration, called it “a real mess,” adding:“It comes down to lots of needs: Take care of the fire victims, keep the lights on, ensure progress on climate change and protect ratepayers. That’s at least a partial list.”Roger Lynch will step down as chief executive of Pandora, the company announced, after stockholders approved a $3.5 billion acquisition by SiriusXM. (Billboard)John Startin will join Evercore in April as a senior managing director in the advisory practice of its investment banking business, moving from Goldman Sachs. (Evercore)JPMorgan Chase has overhauled its deal-making team in London, switching its heads of mergers and acquisitions in the region. (Financial News)Deals • Pinterest is said to have hired Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase to advise on an initial public offering. (FT)• The video game retailer GameStop has pulled the plug on plans to sell itself because of a lack of available financing for potential buyers. (FT)• Governments of Arab monarchies in the Gulf are engineering ways to stay competitive, prompting a wave of consolidations. (Bloomberg)• NIO, a Chinese electric-car maker, is seeking to raise $650 million through a five-year convertible bond. (Reuters)Tech • Under pressure from hedge fund investors, eBay, promised pay its first dividend in March, setting it at 14 cents. (WSJ)• India plans to tighten internet restrictions on foreign companies; Amazon, Facebook, Walmart and others have done well there. (WSJ)• Facebook paid users to install a “Facebook Research” app that spied on their phone and web activity, an investigation found. (TechCrunch)• Elon Musk’s corporate jet logged more than 250 flights over 150,000 miles in 2018, a year when he said Tesla was losing up to $100 million a week and teetering on the brink of collapse. (WaPo)• Amazon is trying hard to win back public favor around the site of its planned New York campus, sending out glossy fliers, funding computer science courses at local high schools, sharing Italian food and more. (NYT)• The tech industry has created start-ups that help landlords manage properties, homeowners manage sales and tenants manage their packages, but not much that makes housing more affordable. Here’s why. (NYT)Politics and policy• President Trump faces increasingly vocal disagreement from the Republican establishment over foreign policy issues, including from the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell. (NYT)• Roger Stone, President Trump’s longtime adviser, pleaded not guilty to obstruction, witness tampering and making false statements in the special counsel investigation. (NYT)• Democrats in Congress are examining potential connections between Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin, a billionaire Republican donor and a Russian oligarch whose companies recently escaped U.S. sanctions. (NYT)• David Malpass, the Treasury under secretary and a supporter of President Trump, is said to be a top contender for the World Bank presidency. (Bloomberg)• British lawmakers narrowly voted down a proposal that could have delayed Brexit, sparing Prime Minister Theresa May another defeat. (NYT)• The Trump administration gave control of Venezuela’s bank accounts and property in the U.S. to the opposition leader Juan Guaidó, as President Nicolás Maduro’s government reeled from American oil sanctions. (NYT)• The House Oversight Committee and the Senate Finance Committee held hearings on Tuesday about high prices for prescription drugs and insulin. (Reuters)Best of the rest • Société Générale plans to cut jobs at its investment bank after trading slumped. (Bloomberg)• A co-founder of the private equity firm Kainos Capital filed a suit claiming that her colleagues deprived her of an ownership stake. (WSJ)• AT&T wants to be a big player in entertainment, but its DirecTV service has become a drag on business. (WSJ)• A small stock exchange offers a peek at the profit larger competitors like the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq make from brokerage firms and banks. (WSJ)• Rather than manufacturing advanced displays at its $10 billion Wisconsin campus, Foxconn may make it a technology center staffed mostly by engineers and researchers. (Reuters)• Denmark’s financial regulator is proposing tough penalties to prevent a repeat of the Danske Bank money-laundering scandal. (FT)• A collection of 248 Supreme skateboard decks were sold at Sotheby’s to a Vancouver collector for a record $800,000. (CNBC)• Goat emojis are flooding Twitter, thanks to fans of Tom Brady. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Thursday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Here’s what to watch for. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)President Trump is optimistic about striking a trade deal with China — but Chinese officials are hesitant, according to Keith Bradsher and Ana Swanson of the NYT:“Beijing officials are wary” that what currently looks like a positive trade deal for them, which doesn’t require big changes to the economy, could turn bad, Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson explain. They worry about “Mr. Trump’s propensity for last-minute changes,” according to unidentified sources.Those fears could derail a planned summit meeting between President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China, where Mr. Trump hopes to sign a deal. “Persuading Mr. Xi to attend such a summit meeting is no easy task, given his imperative of appearing strong before a domestic audience,” Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson note.“The biggest barrier to a deal continues to be the enforcement of terms,” Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson add. “The United States has insisted that it retain the right to raise tariffs if China violates the agreement, without retaliation by Beijing. But some Chinese officials have criticized the arrangement as a potential infringement of China’s sovereign rights.”More: China exports and imports both fell in February, as an economic slowdown and trade fights weighed on the nation.The dust has settled on Mark Zuckerberg’s surprise announcement that the social network would refocus its business on privacy. Now, people are starting to dissect what, exactly, the news means for its business model.“Facebook is entering a transition phase where it will continue to sell targeted ads on its public social networks, while inventing a new business model,” Thomas Husson, a senior analyst at the research company Forrester, told the FT. In other words, think of it as less of a pivot and as more of a diversification.So it will “still gather data from its existing sources,” Christopher Mims of the WSJ writes, “but also increasingly from messaging apps. These would double as interfaces with businesses and, eventually, usurp the functions of our credit cards and digital wallets.” Expect to see Facebook make announcements about payments, commerce and its own crypto token in the not-too-distant future.Diversification is a play for long-term survival, especially if regulators clamp down on the mass collection of data and targeted ads that have been the company’s bread and butter. The faster Facebook can spin up alternative revenue streams — and acting as a global payments network could be a lucrative one — the better its chances of continuing to grow.Bank of America released a report yesterday, on the eve of International Women’s Day, that shows the state of the global disparity in wealth between men and women. There’s reason for both hope and dismay, according to Ortenca Aliaj of the FT.The good:• The report says that improving women’s equality could raise global growth over the next six years by $28 trillion — or, as Ms. Aliaj writes, “roughly the same as the U.S. and China’s combined annual economic output.”• Women are expected to control $72 trillion of global financial assets by 2020, double what they held in 2010.The bad:• “The economic gender gap is closing at a ‘snail’s pace’ and it could take another 202 years to reach equality at the current rate.”• “Women in western Europe might start earning the same as men for the same roles in 60 years, while women in North America might have to wait another 165 years, the report calculated.”• “Data compiled from more than 10,000 respondents showed that men were more optimistic about higher pay rises over the next year while women expected to perform at least two and a half times more unpaid work than men.”More: The private equity and venture capital industries have $3 trillion in assets under management — but female entrepreneurs receive just a fraction of it, according to a new report.As Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant, takes the U.S. government to court over a ban limiting the use of its products in federal agencies, the company has won the support of its government.• “We support relevant companies and individuals to take up legal weapons to safeguard their rights and interests, and not be silent lambs,” Wang Yi, Beijing’s top diplomat, said at a news conference yesterday.• “What we’re standing up for is not just the interests of a company, but also a country or nation’s legitimate right to innovate and by extension the basic right of all countries who wish to climb up the technology ladder,” he added.But Mr. Wang’s comments don’t address U.S. claims that Huawei equipment could be used by China to spy on American communications. As CNBC notes, Chinese law suggests that domestic companies are legally obligated to help the government with intelligence work — and may be forbidden from talking about it.With less than a week to go before Parliament makes a final vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal, she is expected to try to shift the focus from Britain to the E.U.“Just as MPs will face a big choice next week, the E.U. has to make a choice too,” Mrs. May is expected to say in a speech today, according to the BBC. “It is in the European interest for the U.K. to leave with a deal.”“The decisions that the European Union makes over the next few days will have a big impact on the outcome of the vote,” she will add, referring to her hope that European officials will make binding legal changes to the Irish border details of her deal. Those look necessary if Mrs. May is to win over lawmakers.Such a public plea for compromise shows how tough the negotiations have been. “Talks are expected to continue into the weekend,” Bloomberg notes. “If they fail, Parliament will likely vote against May’s deal for the second time, plunging the country into political chaos.”Just a few months ago, the European Central Bank put the brakes on a vast economic stimulus program. Yesterday, it unexpectedly reversed course, Jack Ewing of the NYT writes:• The E.C.B. voted unanimously “to bring back a stimulus measure intended to encourage lending. The move will help banks in countries with weaker economies like Italy that may have trouble raising money on capital markets at reasonable rates.”• “The bank also pushed back the date of its earliest possible increase in benchmark interest rates by at least four months.”• “The quick turnabout, from confidence to concern, reflects the broader weakness in the global economy. A slowdown in China, exacerbated by rising trade tensions with the United States, has reverberated around the world, dragging down growth in Europe and elsewhere.”• “Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, implicitly blamed White House policies for the economic damage behind the decision. ‘Lower confidence produced by the trade discussions’ was a key cause of economic slowdowns in Europe, China and emerging markets, Mr. Draghi said.”• “He added, though, that he did not expect a recession.”You might think that Martin Shkreli, the “pharma bro” imprisoned for fraud, would have curtailed his business efforts. You’d be wrong, as Rob Copeland and Bradley Hope of the WSJ point out.• “Wielding little more than a contraband smartphone, the disgraced pharmaceutical executive remains the shadow power at Phoenixus AG,” the company that, under a different name, drew outrage for jacking up the prices of rare drugs.• He conducts drug research from the prison’s computer lab and, until recently, tweeted insults at the likes of Jack Dorsey of Twitter.• His friends at a prison in Fort Dix, N.J., include inmates like “Krispy” and “D-Block.” (Their reported nickname for Mr. Shkreli is unprintable here.)• “A few weeks ago he rang up his handpicked chief executive during a safari vacation — to fire him, according to a person familiar with the exchange.” That was later changed to a suspension.• “His back-of-the-commissary-envelope calculation indicates that Phoenixus could be worth $3.7 billion by the time he is due to be freed in 2023, according to a person familiar with his thinking.” His business plan involves buying rare drugs and spending on research and development.• But minority shareholders in the company are tired of Mr. Shkreli’s behavior. “This investment is an absolute disaster,” Sabine Gritti, one of those investors, told the WSJ.Uber, Lyft, Airbnb, Slack and a host of other Silicon Valley companies are poised to go public this year, making employees and investors who own shares very rich. Nellie Bowles of the NYT explores how they plan to spend their wealth:They will push up real estate prices. The Bay Area, known for its unaffordable housing, may get even pricier. “People are like, ‘I’m not going to sell till next year, because there are going to be bajillionaries everywhere,’” Herman Chan, a real estate agent with Sotheby’s, told Ms. Bowles.There will be parties. Companies that go public want to celebrate, and hospitality companies are happy to oblige. One planner told Ms. Bowles that start-up I.P.O. party budgets can exceed $10 million, adding, “They’re wanting to bring in A-list celebrities to perform at the dinner tables for the executives.”Trophy purchases will be made. But wealth advisers are trying to persuade new clients to show a little restraint. “I don’t think a lot of them think there ever could be a downturn,” Ryan S. Cole of Citrine Capital told the NYT, adding, “They shouldn’t be buying boats.”Jan Stahlberg, a co-founder of the Swedish private equity firm EQT, is leaving to start an impact-investing fund.Deals• Norway gave its sovereign wealth fund permission to sell off its holdings in pure-play oil companies. (Bloomberg)• Airbnb agreed to buy HotelTonight, a site for last-minute hotel bookings. (NYT)• A group led by Amazon and the New York Yankees is reportedly close to buying the YES Network, the Yankee’s regional sports channel, from 21st Century Fox for about $3.5 billion. (NY Post)• SoftBank announced a new $5 billion fund to invest in Latin American start-ups. (WSJ)• The billionaire family that controls the maker of OxyContin has been dropped by Hildene Capital Management, a hedge fund that had managed some of their money. (WSJ)Politics and policy• House Democrats are looking into claims that President Trump wanted the White House to block AT&T’s bid for Time Warner. (CNBC)• The Labor Department proposed expanding overtime eligibility to cover most salaried workers earning less than $35,000 a year. (NYT)• Michael Cohen sued the Trump Organization over what he says are $1.9 million in unpaid legal fees. (NYT)• Paul Manafort was sentenced to 47 months in prison in one of two cases against him, well below federal guidelines. (NYT)Tech• Wall Street is betting on business software because of the sector’s fast growth. (FT)• Elon Musk’s federal security clearance is at risk over his pot use. (Bloomberg)• Facebook announced a plan to curb vaccine misinformation. (NYT)• Tim Cook changed his Twitter handle to “Tim Apple”— after President Trump misidentified him during a meeting this week. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Carlos Ghosn’s lawyer explained why his client left jail in disguise — and admitted that it didn’t work very well. (WSJ)• Governments and investors are taking a new interest in Africa. Will it play out better for Africans this time? (Economist)• Modern Monetary Theory is gaining favor among American politicians. But should we try it out in a smaller country first? (Upshot)• Philadelphia has become the first U.S. city to ban cashless stores. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Aviation regulators will testify before Senate subcommittees today on the crashes of two Boeing 737 Max 8 Jets, while Boeing meets with airline executives to update them on a fix for the software thought to be responsible for the accidents.The F.A.A.’s acting chief will defend the agency’s practice of delegating some plane safety checks to Boeing as “critical” to the success of the certification process. The official, Daniel Elwell, will argue that the process for the Max 8 was “detailed and thorough.”Senators are expected to ask about long-running doubts about the process. The NYT reports that F.A.A. employees and a Transportation Department watchdog worried over the years that the agency had “too close a relationship” with Boeing officials. Lawmakers will also ask why an update to the jet’s anti-stall software is still not ready.Boeing’s response to the crisis is also being questioned, particularly since its C.E.O., Dennis Muilenburg, has largely remained silent. “Their comments have been very engineering-esque,” Richard Levick, a communications expert, told the NYT. (The company’s public response has become more assertive since hiring the crisis communications firm Sard Verbinnen.)The company will meet today with 200 pilots and airline representatives at the factory where the Max 8 is made. It’s expected to offer some updates on the anti-stall software.More Boeing news: A Max 8 made an emergency landing in Orlando yesterday, though the incident is not thought to be connected to malfunctions that may have led to the two recent crashes.The European Parliament voted yesterday to pass a new copyright law requiring technology platforms to sign licensing agreements with musicians, authors and news publishers in order to post their work online, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.“The new law is meant to force tech firms to aggressively remove unlicensed copyrighted material from their websites proactively, rather than waiting for complaints to come in before acting,” Mr. Satariano writes.The policy is deeply divisive. Digital rights activists and the tech industry say it could result in censorship. Media organizations say it should protect Europe’s creative industries and ensure companies pay for content they share online.Some digital business models could be affected, because website owners will take on more responsibility for what ends up on their platforms. Sites may find the law too expensive or cumbersome to police: Even Google shuttered its News service, which would require licenses from publishers under the new rules, when a similar initiative was introduced in Spain.Smaller organizations may be hit hardest. These websites contend that giant tech platforms already have the resources to comply with the law, Mr. Satariano writes.Purdue Pharma, the drug maker behind OxyContin, said yesterday that it will settle a lawsuit by Oklahoma’s attorney general over its role in the opioid crisis, Jan Hoffman of the NYT reports.Purdue and its owners will pay $270 million, far more than they have paid in previous settlements. The payout helps Purdue avoid a televised trial that was scheduled to begin on May 28.But many more legal battles await. A federal judge in Cleveland alone is overseeing a consolidated collection of 1,600 lawsuits, and 35 other states have sued Purdue as well.The settlement raises questions about a Purdue bankruptcy. The company has contemplated filing for Chapter 11 protection to help contain the cost of defending or settling its legal fights. In bankruptcy, lawsuit claimants would most likely get only a fraction of any court-determined payout.Chapter 11 weighed heavily in the Oklahoma case. The state made a bird-in-the-hand decision, and other plaintiffs may need to make a similar choice. “The concern is that counties and states may settle on the cheap early to avoid getting little to nothing later on,” Elizabeth Chamblee Burch, a law professor at the University of Georgia, told the NYT.New data about Wall Street compensation shows that the financial sector’s huge pay has widened the national disparity between white men and women and people of color, according to a new report from the Institute for Policy Studies, a liberal think tank.New York City’s financial sector bonus pool fell last year by 14 percent from the previous year, to $27.5 billion. But that is still three times bigger than the combined annual earnings of all U.S. full-time minimum-wage workers.A majority of financial workers are white men, especially at the top ranks, according to the institute. No less than 68 percent of senior managers at the five largest U.S. investment banks are white men.But they make up just 37 percent of America’s minimum-wage workers, who have full- or part-time jobs that pay $7.25 an hour. “Due to Washington inaction, the federal minimum wage continues to be a poverty wage, while the reckless bonus culture is alive and well on Wall Street,” the report concludes.As at least 80 patent fights between Apple and Qualcomm trickle through courts around the world, both companies scored victories yesterday, the WSJ reports.Some iPhones now face a U.S. import ban after an International Trade Commission judge issued an initial ruling yesterday finding that Apple had infringed a Qualcomm patent.But Apple scored a bigger victory when another I.T.C. judge ruled that the phone maker had not infringed a Qualcomm patent relating to power efficiency in mobile phones. That overturned a previous court finding.“Qualcomm is hoping a victory, particularly an import ban, could give it greater leverage in technology licensing negotiations,” Bloomberg explains. “Qualcomm says it’s due billions of dollars in unpaid royalties on the iPhone.”“Apple denied infringing any of the patents in the two cases and claimed Qualcomm is trying to shut its only U.S.-based competitor out of the market, something Apple argues will hinder the development of the fifth generation of mobile communications,” Bloomberg adds.Corporate America set a record for stock repurchases last year, even as lawmakers proposed curtailing the practice.Companies bought back $806.4 billion worth of their own shares, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices, with $223 billion of that coming in the fourth quarter alone. The previous high was $589.1 billion, set in 2007.The biggest buyer was Apple, which repurchased $101 billion of its stock.The buyback boom was fueled by the Trump tax cuts, with companies preferring to use their savings to repurchase shares and bolster their stock prices, rather than issue dividends or make new investments.And it came despite opposition from Congress, with lawmakers from Senator Bernie Sanders to Senator Marco Rubio arguing in favor of limits on the practice.But a repeat is unlikely this year, as the sugar rush from the tax cuts wears off.In 2013, Google started an ambitious and flashy effort to create robots under the control of Andy Rubin, who later left the company amid accusations of sexual harassment. Now, the company has overhauled the effort with more modest goals — but subtly advanced technology, Cade Metz of the NYT reports.Google’s first robot push was all about advanced machines, and was built on a series of acquisitions. Some of the companies that Google bought relied on humanoid robots, but the tech giant failed to capitalize on them, and sold off or shut down the companies over time.Now the focus is on making robots smarter by injecting them with machine-learning software. “The company is developing ways for these robots to learn skills on their own, like sorting through a bin of unfamiliar objects or navigating a warehouse filled with unexpected obstacles,” Mr. Metz writes.“Google is tight-lipped about how it hopes to deploy the technologies it is working on,” Mr. Metz adds. That’s probably because most researchers see robots being used in warehouses and distribution centers around the world, raising questions about how automation will erode jobs.DealBook exclusive: The Brunswick Group plans to announce this morning that it has hired Michael O’Looney, most recently head of communications at Elliott Management, as a partner in New York and Courtney Chiang Dorman, who previously was the C.O.O. of the law firm Wilson Sonsini, as a partner in San Francisco.JC Penney hired Bill Wafford, most recently the chief financial officer of The Vitamin Shoppe, as its C.F.O.Simon Sutton is reportedly stepping down as HBO’s chief revenue officer.Deals• Lyft reportedly plans to raise the price range of its I.P.O. amid strong investor demand. (WSJ)• Renault reportedly plans to restart merger talks with Nissan and pursue a takeover of Fiat Chrysler. (FT)• Centene has agreed to buy WellCare, a managed-care rival, for $17.3 billion, including the assumption of debt. (PR Newswire)• The Chinese gaming company that owns Grindr reportedly plans to sell the dating app after the U.S. national security panel Cfius raised concerns about its ownership. (Reuters)• Spotify agreed to buy Parcast, a producer of crime and mystery podcasts. (NYT)Politics and policy• Stephen Moore, the economic commentator whom President Trump plans to nominate as a Fed governor, said he’s no “sycophant” for the president. (NYT)• Democrats see political opportunity as Mr. Trump moves to abolish the Affordable Care Act. Here’s what would happen if the Obama health care law is struck down. (NYT)• The House failed to override Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency over a border wall. (NYT)• The Green New Deal failed in a Republican-led vote in the Senate yesterday, as Democrats voted “present.” (Axios)• The Justice Department said that it plans to release a version of the Mueller report to Congress and the public within weeks. (WSJ)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal is slowly gaining support among critics in her Conservative Party — but some want her resignation in exchange for their votes. (Bloomberg)• The E.U. has reportedly suggested that if Britain asks for a long delay to Brexit, its departure could be pushed back until March 31, 2020. (Guardian)• More than half of British business leaders want a deal where Britain is closely aligned to the E.U.’s single market for goods and services. (FT)Trade• The U.S. is pressing Canada and Mexico to agree to permanent limits on the amount of steel and aluminum they export to America each year. (NYT)• China’s humiliation in the 1800s feeds into its reluctance to let the U.S. impose tariffs if Beijing fails to keep its promises on trade. (NYT)Tech• Sundar Pichai, Google’s C.E.O., will reportedly meet with the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff today to discuss the tech giant’s A.I. work in China. (Bloomberg)• A judge will hear arguments on April 4 on whether Elon Musk should be found in contempt of court. (Business Insider)• Three A.I. pioneers have won the Turing award, considered the Nobel of computing, for their work in developing artificial neural networks. (NYT)• Google is reportedly funding “dozens” of new local news websites around the U.S. (Axios)• Palantir reportedly won a Pentagon contract to build a battlefield intelligence system. (WaPo)Best of the rest• Wall Street firms, including JPMorgan Chase and Blackstone, have added #MeToo keywords like “harassment” to risk factors in their annual reports. (Business Insider)• Nissan reportedly paid at least $601,000 in Stanford tuition fees for Carlos Ghosn’s children. (Bloomberg)• Citigroup is being sued for age discrimination by a 56-year-old banker, who claims he was told “you are old and set in your ways” before being dismissed. (Bloomberg)• Lloyd’s of London announced measures to combat sexual harassment at the insurance brokerage, including lifetime bans for offenders. (Bloomberg)• Vice President Mike Pence said that the Trump administration wants NASA to put astronauts back on the moon by 2024 “by any means necessary.” (Verge)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" China DailyAdvertisementShareAuthorities adopt policies to promote commercial space sector.Satellites have become the latest gold mine for private companies in China as they rush to reach for the stars in the space sector.The country’s satellite industry, which used to be dominated by State-owned enterprises, is gradually changing and opening to private players.A senior industry expert with a satellite startup in Beijing, who wished to remain anonymous, said that based on the startup’s internal research more than 90 Chinese startups that specialize in satellites or rockets have taken their first steps in the space industry in the past four years.“It means that on average, nearly two startups were founded every month in the past four years in China. It is significant if China is to grab a slice of the cake from the global competition in the budding space industry,” he said.According to The Space Report 2018 issued by The Space Foundation, the total market of the global space economy was $384 billion in 2017, a year-on-year increase of 7.4 percent. Of that, commercial activities accounted for more than 80 percent.Industry experts pointed out that China accounts for only 3 to 5 percent of the space economy globally, but the country is rapidly gaining ground in scale and in technology.Since 2014 Chinese authorities have adopted policies related to the country’s space industry, encouraging private players to take part.Earlier, the National Development and Reform Commission, along with the Ministry of Finance and the State Administration of Science, Technology and Industry for National Defense, also unveiled a 10-year blueprint to promote the commercial space sector.In November LinkSure Network, a Chinese company that provides access to the internet free of charge, announced a plan to launch China’s first Wi-Fi satellite this year.It plans to send 272 satellites into space to provide free Wi-Fi globally by 2026. The first tranche of investment will be 3 billion yuan ($447 million).Similar to Elon Musk’s Starlink plan, the satellites will be used to expand internet coverage and boost internet speeds, the Shanghai-based internet firm said.“The starting point of such a plan is to offer free internet connections to people around the world, especially those in underdeveloped areas or rough terrain,” said Wang Xiaoshu, rotating president of LinkSure Network.The company, founded in 2013, became a unicorn－a startup valued at more than $1 billion－in 2015 by raising $52 million in its A-round of financing.“Satellite connection will be a great supplement to the ground network. The ground network, which relies on stations, has limitations due to, for example, weather and landform,” said An Yang, chief scientist of LinkSure’s satellite project.“On a global scale, the number of satellites is far from meeting the huge demand for communication. The future of the communication sector must be a combination of space and ground,” he said.Under the plan, revenue will come from services to high-end users as well as those provided to areas that the ground network is unable to reach, An said.LinkSure is not the first. A string of startups have sent satellites into space for different purposes. For instance, Guoxing Yuhang Co. Ltd., or ADA Space, a private firm based in Chengdu, Sichuan province, launched two artificial intelligence satellites at the end of last year.Though the country’s internet giants have not directly announced plans to develop, produce or launch satellites, they are showing a desire to do so.Tech conglomerate Alibaba Group launched a communication satellite to support its online shopping gala last year while Baidu CEO Robin Li said earlier that he hoped more support could be given to private companies in the civilian space segment.Another tech giant, Tencent Holdings Ltd., has also jumped on the bandwagon by investing in U.S. startup Moon Express, which was founded in 2013 by a group of space entrepreneurs.The U.S. startup is looking to profit from the commercial space sector through leveraging core technologies including using drones to mine asteroids.Compared with State-owned companies, private firms are better at commercialization including attracting and using money and resources, which will greatly improve efficiency, said Yang Feng, CEO of Spacety, a commercial aerospace company specializing in developing commercial micro and nano satellites.“It is also a promising area where State-owned and private space companies can supplement and cooperate with each other,” he added.Notably, some private players have also entered the overseas market. China Communication Technology Co. Ltd. in Shenzhen, a satellite-based communication services provider, has been beefing up its overseas presence to exploit foreign opportunities.“We aim to extend our business to Africa this year and will tap into one or two Belt and Road economies each year,” said Wu Guangsheng, president of CCT.CCT is currently offering services and products in the United States, Europe, the Middle East and nine other countries and regions that are participating in the Belt and Road Initiative.In 2017, its overseas revenue was about 9 billion yuan, which made up more than 60 percent of the total.It also plans to further explore Southeast Asian markets including Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines, and promote its products in Central Asian economies such as Kazakhstan.Last year, the company entered the Philippines by acquiring G Telecoms Inc., the third-biggest telecom operator in the local market.“In the past, we could only cooperate with local (telecom) carriers in foreign countries by selling our equipment to them. But with this big step, we can operate independently, be it launching our own satellites or providing data-related services,” Wu said.The business could have huge potential as some 75 percent of the Philippines’ 100 million population are aged 25 or under and they have a voracious demand for communication services.So far, CCT has received orders from civil aviation and public security departments in the Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia.In 2018, at least 15 private space companies disclosed their financing with the total amount estimated to reach more than 2 billion yuan, according to a report from 36Kr, a science and technology media group.A report from China Money Network pointed out that seven private space companies had raised more than 1.66 billion yuan by August 2018.MatrixPartners China, IDG Capital, China Growth Capital and Shunwei Capital were among the major investors.Despite intensive capital support, industry insiders pointed out that there is still a long way to go for Chinese private firms to gain a lead.For startups, money is still the bottleneck, said Jiang Yunwei, president of CITIC Juxin (Beijing) Co. Ltd. Capital Management, in a report.“A company cannot earn money by launching a single satellite and the commercialization of satellites needs a network of dozens of satellites, which costs a lot,” he said.A satellite network requires at least 1.8 to 2 billion yuan, according to Xie Tao, founder and CEO of Beijing-based space startup Commsat Technology Development Co.Facing such pressure, satellite startups are expected to address another challenge－to reduce the cost of developing and launching satellites.“Companies should change their approach of using costly accessories made only for space,” said Xie. “Private companies can leverage commercial components to replace expensive ones.”Zhang Jiacheng, an investor in space startup OneSpace, agreed. “China is still at the starting point in the commercial space sector. A well-rounded system needs to be established to offer space startups affordable and sustainable services.”Cheng YuThe news and editorial staffs of The New York Times had no role in this advertisement’s creation."
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Amazon yesterday canceled its plans to build a huge corporate campus in New York City.• The decision was an abrupt turnabout after a yearlong search for a second headquarters. The tech giant ultimately decided to open two new sites — in Queens and in Virginia. Each would have gained an estimated 25,000 jobs.• But Amazon faced a backlash in New York from lawmakers, activists and union leaders who said it didn’t deserve nearly $3 billion in government incentives.• “The company made its decision late Wednesday, after growing increasingly concerned that the backlash in New York showed no sign of abating and was tarnishing its image beyond the city,” J. David Goodman of the NYT writes.• “Looking at the opposition and the timeline we decided we don’t want to work in this environment in the long term,” Jodi Seth, the head of policy communications for Amazon, told NBC News.This could be a turning point for corporate-civic relations. It will surely change how companies think about doing business in certain states and cities. It’s also likely to make political leaders — especially in Democratic regions — reconsider offering tax incentives to lure business. (One big question here: Should states and cities be allowed to offer subsidies to business in the first place?)It’s also a clear sign that leftist views are gaining traction. The news is a short-term win for progressive politicians like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who are championing what they say are socialist messages. (Ms. Ocasio-Cortez appeared to revel in the decision on Twitter, saying that “anything is possible.”) But in the longer term, those lawmakers may face a backlash if the loss of those 25,000 jobs in Long Island City hurts the local economy.And it raises questions about the wider understanding of finance. “N.Y.C. wasn’t handing cash to Amazon. It was an incentive program based on job creation, producing tax revenue,” Andrew tweeted. “There isn’t a $3 billion pile of money that can now be spent on subways or education.”More: The news came as a shock even to some of the labor groups that opposed the plans. Here’s what people are saying about the decision in New York City. Real-estate brokers are in despair. And tech could keep gaining ground in the city regardless.President Trump looks set to sign a bipartisan deal as soon as today to provide funding for border security and the federal government. But he’s also expected to declare a national emergency to get more money to build his long-promised border wall.Everything nearly fell apart yesterday. “The president was frustrated after a briefing by Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen and others on details of the final deal to avoid a shutdown,” the WaPo reports, citing unnamed officials involved in the discussions. But assertions by the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, that the president had actually beaten Democrats helped sway Mr. Trump.By declaring a national emergency, Mr. Trump is hoping to gain access to billions more in federal funds. Combined with the spending bill and other ways of diverting money, he expects to get about $8 billion. (He originally asked for $5.7 billion from Congress.)There are huge concerns about the declaration. “Mr. Trump’s willingness to invoke emergency powers to circumvent Congress is likely to go down as an extraordinary violation of constitutional norms — setting a precedent that future presidents of both parties may emulate to unilaterally achieve their own policy goals,” Charlie Savage of the NYT writes.What next? House Democrats will probably try to terminate any declaration and the Senate may follow suit, Nicholas Fandos of the NYT writes. But Mr. Trump would veto that legislation, and it’s unlikely that Congress could override him. The White House could face legal battles over the declaration for years.The social network is in talks with the Federal Trade Commission to settle allegations of privacy violations. It could lead to a record multibillion-dollar fine, Cecilia Kang of the NYT writes:• “The company and the F.T.C.’s consumer protection and enforcement staff have been in negotiations over a financial penalty for claims that Facebook violated a 2011 privacy consent decree with the agency.”• The investigation began shortly after the Cambridge Analytica data scandal came to light in March 2018.• “Some F.T.C. officials have pressed for maximum penalties because of several new reports of potential privacy breaches since the start of the investigation. The agency can seek up to $41,000 for each violation found by the agency. In the case of Cambridge Analytica, 87 million people were affected.”• “The current talks have not yet reached the F.T.C.’s five commissioners for a vote and it is unclear how close the two sides are to wrapping up the nearly 11-month investigation.”More Facebook news: The social network reportedly uses its apps to track people that it believes are risks to its employees.Negotiators concluded talks today with no official announcement of an agreement, Keith Bradsher of the NYT reports. That leaves the state of the negotiations uncertain ahead of a deadline in two weeks.• “The two sides have been struggling with more than 100 issues raised by the United States in a lengthy statement given to Chinese officials in May.”• Expectations for the talks were low, though some progress was made in the prelude to this week’s discussions. For example, China agreed to disclose more of its government subsidies to the World Trade Organization.• But big hurdles remained, Mr. Bradsher writes, including “the Trump administration’s desire to put meaningful restrictions on China’s ability to keep investing enormous sums of money from the government, and from government-affiliated financial institutions, in a wide range of advanced manufacturing sectors that compete with American industries.”• “The United States had given China a March 2 deadline toward reaching a deal and threatened to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods to 25 percent from 10 percent. But Mr. Trump suggested this week that he could give China more time if the talks showed progress.”• It’s unclear whether the talks went far enough for that extension to be granted.The British Prime Minister suffered an embarrassing defeat over Britain’s exit from the European Union last night, Stephen Castle of the NYT reports.Her current plan lacks support. “By a margin of 303 to 258, lawmakers failed to support a motion endorsing the government’s battered strategy,” Mr. Castle writes, noting that “a fragile truce within her Conservative Party collapsed.”That could undermine her negotiations in Europe. “Mrs. May has assured European negotiators that she can get a majority for a revised Brexit plan, if they make some concessions,” Mr. Castle notes. But yesterday’s vote suggests that lawmakers still can’t coalesce around a single plan, leaving the E.U. with little incentive to budge.What now? British officials are “preparing to compromise on their demands for a rewrite of the Brexit agreement,” and may not ask the E.U. to reopen the existing withdrawal agreement, Bloomberg reports, citing an unnamed person familiar with the matter.But she’s short on time. On Feb. 27, lawmakers are expected to try again to take control of the process out of Mrs. May’s hands. That gives her two weeks to develop a plan that Parliament likes. Given the lack of progress to date, that looks like a tall order.More Brexit news: Brussels rejected calls for dual-listed shares in London and the E.U. in the event of no deal. The New York Stock Exchange took the S.E.C. to court yesterday over a so-called Transaction Fee Pilot program that sorts listed stocks into categories with varying price controls. In a WSJ op-ed, Stacey Cunningham, the exchange’s president, explains why:• “The new rule amounts to an unnecessary exercise in government price-setting that will add a new layer of complexity to equity markets.”• “The Transaction Fee Pilot imposes government control on the incentives that public markets can offer. Market-maker benefits will be sharply reduced for some securities and fully eliminated for others.”• “The N.Y.S.E. voiced its concerns to the S.E.C. during its public-comment period. We argued that the pilot will undermine the ability of market forces to drive capital formation and will fail at its goal of measuring broker conflicts.”• “The S.E.C. freely admits it has no idea whether its pilot program will help or harm investors. This is a black flag that should worry the White House. The stock market is not a simulation. We operate in a real-world environment with investors’ real dollars.”David Bronczek will step down as FedEx’s president and as a director, weeks after joining its board.Tim Maly will retire as SurveyMonkey’s C.F.O. and C.O.O.The Chinese ride-hailing service Didi Chuxing reportedly plans to cut 15 percent of its work force, or about 2,000 people.Deals• Carl Icahn has reportedly taken a 10 percent stake in Caesars Entertainment and plans to push the casino operator to sell itself. (WSJ)• Ford Motor and Volkswagen are said to be near a deal to create an autonomous car venture that would be valued at $4 billion. (Bloomberg)• Berkshire Hathaway has taken a stake in Suncor Energy of Canada and bought more shares in JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America. It also trimmed its holdings in Apple. (Reuters, Bloomberg)• Spotify says it spent $340 million to buy the podcasting start-ups Gimlet Media and Anchor. (TechCrunch)Politics and policy• The Senate confirmed William Barr as attorney general. (NYT)• The Fed is reportedly close to figuring out how to sell its $4 trillion asset portfolio. (WSJ)• Andrew McCabe, the former No. 2 at the F.B.I., said that Justice Department officials discussed an attempt to remove President Trump from office using the 25th Amendment. (NYT)• The Economist weighs in on “millennial socialism”: “This swing within the left is not necessarily a new path to power. Indeed, many caught up in it fear quite the reverse.” (Economist)Tech• The U.S. push against Huawei hardware is difficult because carriers simply like it too much. But that isn’t stopping Samsung from doubling down on network equipment to take advantage of the situation. (WSJ, Reuters)• OpenAI, the nonprofit machine-learning company backed by Elon Musk, has developed a system capable of writing whole articles. But it won’t make the software fully public because of its ability to generate reams of compelling fake news. (MIT Technology Review)• Google’s Sidewalk Labs reportedly plans to expand its operations in Toronto. (Star)• The O.E.C.D. is trying to work out where Big Tech’s profits should be counted — and, by extension, which nations should reap the tax revenue. (WSJ)• Could China use medical data to blackmail you? (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Michael Sanchez, the brother of Lauren Sanchez, with whom Jeff Bezos had an affair, denied any involvement in leaking their text messages. (Vanity Fair)• XPO Logistics plans to close the warehouse where some pregnant workers miscarried. (NYT)• A former Goldman Sachs banker, Roger Ng, who is charged with fraud in the 1MDB case, will return to the U.S. (NYT)• PG&E’s bankruptcy highlights some of the big issues in green investing. (WSJ)• The 10 highest-paid hedge fund managers made a combined $7.7 billion in 2018. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump might keep some tariffs on Chinese goods even if Beijing and Washington reach a trade agreement, he told the NYT yesterday, after delegates from both countries wrapped up another round of negotiations.“Without the tariffs, we wouldn’t be talking,” he said in an interview.How were the discussions? According to Mr. Trump’s posts on Twitter, they went well, “with good intent and spirit on both sides.” He hosted the negotiators in the Oval Office and suggested that President Xi Jinping of China was willing to welcome more American companies and to buy more American products — including five million tons of soybeans. The Chinese representatives, led by the American-educated vice premier, Liu He, said that the two sides had made “important progress” and had “candid, specific and fruitful” talks. Robert Lighthizer, the top American trade negotiator, was less sanguine. “We did not come off the rails,” he said. “That’s significant.”What’s next? The two sides hope to reach an agreement by early March, before Mr. Trump plans to increase tariffs after a 90-day truce. Mr. Lighthizer and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will go to Beijing after the Chinese New Year holiday this month to prepare for  talks between the two presidents. Mr. Trump said that summit meeting would happen “in the near future” and that it would address “some of the long standing and more difficult points.” According to Myron Brilliant, the head of international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “we are in the fifth inning of a nine-inning game.” He also used another sports analogy to describe the negotiations:I would now say we are at halftime of the Super Bowl of trade relations.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Facebook’s 35,000 employees got a reminder this week of Apple’s power over their day-to-day routines. So did workers at Google.After Facebook and Google ran afoul of Apple’s rules for distributing apps, Apple hit back by blocking the two Silicon Valley giants from using the internal apps and updates that run on iPhone software.Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, told the NYT that the offending app had not been a secret and had operated with users’ consent. Apple eventually restored access for both Facebook and Google, but its point had been made: Cross us at your peril.The tension with Apple was not Facebook’s only concern.• The social network, in a collaboration with Twitter, said that other countries appeared to be following the Russian playbook for using social media to disseminate propaganda and disinformation. One campaign, from Iran, touched on the conflict in Syria and conspiracy theories about the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Facebook said it had removed 783 pages, groups and accounts with ties to Iran, while Twitter said it had taken down more than 2,000 accounts.• Facebook, already being investigated by the authorities in Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York, is also said to be the target of several more inquiries, including in Connecticut, Illinois and Pennsylvania, over its mishandling of user data.Deutsche has been in a lot of trouble for a very long time. Now, it’s looking increasingly probable that the German government will step in to combine it with its smaller, but also struggling competitor, Commerzbank.Deutsche reported its first full-year net profit since 2014 today but still failed to meet analysts’ expectations. Its fourth quarter showed continued weakness.The bank has lurched through various failed restructuring efforts, has been hit with fine after fine and was recently raided by prosecutors pursuing a money-laundering investigation. Its stock price has more than halved in the past year. If it is unable to recover on its own, it is thought a merger with Commerzbank may occur by midyear.But that may not be wise, writes Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg:The deal looks like the option of last resort. Combining two of Europe’s most inefficient banks to create an even bigger supertanker would require tens of thousands of job cuts and a risky (read costly) integration to stand a chance of working.The Labor Department will release its monthly estimate of hiring and unemployment at 8:30 a.m. But there’s even more uncertainty than usual, writes the NYT’s Ben Casselman. Here’s what to look for:Crucial time: The United States’ decade-long expansion could be nearing its end, and the partial government shutdown has added to those fears. Not all the effects will show up in the jobs data, but they will make the report unusually hard to interpret.Potential impact: There is one place the shutdown will probably show up: the jobless rate. Unemployment could go up by one- or two-tenths of a percentage point.Solid foundation: The job market is strong, however. Claims for unemployment insurance recently hit a nearly 50-year low, and paychecks are growing.Investors looked to earnings reports yesterday from two bellwethers of the U.S. economy: Amazon and General Electric. Both seem to be struggling with growing pains.Stiff competition: The latest quarterly results suggested that Amazon’s retail business not only faced more competition, it was also maturing, as growth slowed from its usual breakneck pace. But the company compensated by expanding its highly profitable cloud and advertising businesses. Its revenue guidance fell short of expectations, sending shares down sharply in after-hours trading.Seeking a turnaround: G.E.’s fourth-quarter results pointed to the depth of the company’s challenges, despite a strong performance by the company’s jet engine business. G.E. made no forecast for what its profit and revenue would look like this year, and its chief executive, Lawrence Culp, said that 2019 was “still very much a work in progress.” The company also said that it had reached a $1.5 billion settlement in an investigation of its role in the 2008 financial crisis, reassuring investors.More earnings news: Nintendo shares dropped more than 9.3 percent after it cut its full-year target for sales of its Switch video game console.Intel named its interim chief executive, Robert Swan, as its permanent leader, ending a seven-month search. (NYT)Symantec said its chief financial officer, Nicholas Noviello, planned to step down in the coming months to pursue other opportunities. (FT)John Brumby, a former Australian lawmaker, retired from the board of the Australian subsidiary of Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant. (FT)Deals• Blackstone and Apollo, two of the biggest private equity firms, recorded sharp declines in profit in the fourth quarter of 2018 after investments were hit by rocky markets. (FT)• Seeking to narrow its focus to consumer appliances, Electrolux plans to spin off a unit that supplies restaurants and hotels with food, beverages and equipment. (FT)• Blackstone said it would buy a controlling stake in Tallgrass Energy, a midstream energy company, for $3.3 billion. (Reuters)Tech• Jeff Bezos’s space venture, Blue Origin, reached a deal with Telesat of Canada to launch part of a satellite constellation intended to provide faster internet access. (Reuters)• New e-commerce rules in India caused widespread disruption on Amazon’s website there. (Reuters)• Elon Musk blamed layoffs at SpaceX on the company’s “two absolutely insane projects.” (CNBC)• Mark Zuckerberg added $6.2 billion to his net worth after Facebook posted revenue that beat Wall Street estimates, sending its shares soaring. (Bloomberg)Politics & Policy• President Trump said in an exclusive interview with the NYT that he would proceed with a border wall regardless of the result of talks with lawmakers and dismissed any suggestions of wrongdoing in the investigations that have ensnared his associates. (NYT)• The Republican-led Senate voted 68 to 23 to advance legislation that strongly opposes President Trump’s withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Syria and Afghanistan. (NYT)• President Trump signed an executive order intended to funnel more federal funding into infrastructure projects that employ American workers. (NYT)• Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the Senate majority leader, called Democratic legislation that aims to clear obstacles to voting and to make Election Day a federal holiday a “power grab.” (NYT)• Mr. Trump is said to be considering Herman Cain, the former pizza company executive and Republican presidential candidate, for a seat on the Federal Reserve Board. (Bloomberg)• Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, wants a 2 percent tax on household wealth exceeding $50 million, and a 3 percent tax for those with more than $1 billion. Here’s how the plan from the presidential hopeful would work. (Bloomberg)• Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has his own plan to subject billionaires to a 77 percent estate tax. Here’s how much Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates and Warren Buffett would have to pay. (CNBC)Best of the Rest• Fears that supply chains will be severely disrupted in the event of a no-deal Brexit are leading to shortages of food and medicines in Britain. (Reuters)• Nearly a third of British companies could move their operations abroad because of Brexit, according to a recent survey. (BBC)• The timing of Italy’s recession could not be worse: Europe is at an economic standstill, raising anxieties that the world is on the verge of a significant slowdown. (NYT)• The Venezuelan company Citgo Petroleum, one of the largest refiners in the U.S., is considering bankruptcy after the Trump administration placed sanctions on Venezuela’s oil sector. (WSJ)• Chinese factories increasingly make goods for the country’s middle class, but when those consumers hold back, local workers can suffer. (NYT)• Lime, a scooter start-up based in San Francisco, is raising $400 million in its latest funding round, which values the company at $2 billion. (WSJ)• Palantir, a data-mining company, is handing out more bonuses and cheaper stock options after a succession of shareholder write-downs and political controversies tied to its co-founder, Peter Thiel. (Bloomberg)• Shell Oil reached a tentative agreement with the United Steelworkers union to increase pay by 11 percent over three years for 30,000 American workers. (Reuters)• Banks and smaller companies helped lift the stock market, a sign that investors are favoring sectors tied to the U.S. economy as trade tensions cloud global growth. (WSJ)• E.U. antitrust authorities have accused eight banks of colluding from 2007 to 2012 to manipulate the market for eurozone government bonds. (FT)• The cosmetics company e.l.f. Beauty imported 156 shipments of false eyelash kits with material sourced from North Korea, violating sanctions. The company will pay a settlement of nearly $1 million to the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control. (CNBC)• As China’s economy slows, gambling revenue in Macau fell 5 percent to $3.1 billion in January, the first fall since July 2016. (FT)• The polar vortex may cost American retailers and restaurants nearly $1 billion. (FT)• Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the country’s largest bank, may struggle if a powerful government inquiry intensifies regulatory pressure. (Reuters)• The curious case of why shares of PG&E rose after the utility company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Yesterday’s testimony by Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former personal lawyer, before the House Oversight Committee was full of theatrics. But between allegations of presidential lawbreaking and racism were revelations about how the Trump Organization operated. They weren’t flattering.Mr. Trump inflated his net worth to apply for bank loans, according to Mr. Cohen. When he asked Deutsche Bank for financing to buy the Buffalo Bills, he claimed to have $4 billion in unquantified “brand value.” He also exaggerated the value of properties, according to financial statements that Mr. Cohen gave to the House.Democratic lawmakers pushed Mr. Cohen to talk about other kinds of fraud. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, for instance, asked him whether Mr. Trump inflated the value of assets when insuring them. “Yes,” he replied.The testimony may have hurt Mr. Trump’s inner circle. Potential victims: Donald Trump Jr. and Allen Weisselberg, the Trump Organization’s C.F.O., both of whom were said to have played a role in hush-money payments to the porn star Stormy Daniels; Ivanka Trump, who was involved in plans to build a tower in Moscow; and Jay Sekulow, a White House lawyer whom Mr. Cohen accused of altering testimony to Congress.Mr. Cohen hinted that more could be revealed. He told lawmakers that he couldn’t answer questions about his last conversation with the president because it was “being investigated right now” by federal prosecutors.Mr. Trump’s woes certainly aren’t over. Five House committees are investigating his business dealings, and federal prosecutors in New York are still looking at matters that involved Mr. Cohen.Robert Lighthizer, the president’s top trade adviser, warned lawmakers yesterday that hurdles remained to reaching a significant trade deal with China, Ana Swanson of the NYT reports:Plans to raise tariffs on Chinese goods are officially axed. Mr. Lighthizer, testifying before the House Ways and Means Committee, confirmed that the U.S. wouldn’t raise levies on $200 billion in Chinese imports after March 1.Mr. Lighthizer still plans to play hardball. He “told lawmakers that he and his negotiators are maintaining a tough line with the Chinese,” Ms. Swanson writes, “repeatedly using the word ‘if’ when talking about the potential for reaching a deal with Beijing.”And he insists that President Trump isn’t losing patience. “His instructions to me are: You have to get a great agreement. If we have no agreement, we’ll just wait until we can get a great agreement,” Mr. Lighthizer said.But success isn’t guaranteed. “Is this perfect? I’m not going to say it’s perfect,” Mr. Lighthizer said of the evolving deal. “But at least it’s leading to results where everything else didn’t.”More: The U.S. trade deficit in goods widened by 10 percent in December, despite the administration’s attempts to shrink it.The main topic at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, this week has been the long-hyped next generation of wireless networks, known as 5G, Adam Satariano of the NYT writes.The F.C.C.’s chairman says America is winning the race. “In my view we’re in the lead with respect to 5G,” the chairman, Ajit Pai, told the WSJ. He believes the agency is making progress in selling the necessary wireless spectrum and overhauling infrastructure.Not everyone agrees. Brent Skorup, who sits on the F.C.C.’s Broadband Deployment Advisory Committee, writes in a WSJ op-ed that “the U.S. has stumbled,” but “still has time to catch and pass China, the current leader — if the right policies are put in place on both the local and federal levels.”“A widely available, reliable 5G network will require hundreds of thousands of new transmitter sites, and on that score the U.S. trails badly,” Mr. Skorup writes. Private industry will need to collaborate with the federal government, he cautions, adding that “with a combination of responsible use of public assets and light-touch regulation of 5G services, we can still win this race.”More: Here are all the 5G handsets announced so far.Today was supposed to bring a denuclearization deal between America and North Korea. Instead, officials abruptly cut short a summit meeting between President Trump and North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un. “Sometimes you have to walk,” Mr. Trump said at a news conference today.Blame sanctions. Mr. Trump told reporters that North Korea wanted all of the punishing economic sanctions against the country lifted, but America wouldn’t cooperate unless Mr. Kim agreed to give up all of his nuclear weapons.The announcement was a surprise, in part because Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim appeared to be getting along well. At one point, Mr. Trump called his counterpart “my friend.”The collapse of the talks was “a diplomatic failure after he had hoped his second summit with Kim, following their meeting last summer in Singapore, would produce demonstrable progress toward North Korea’s denuclearization,” the WaPo reports. Mr. Trump insisted that the two countries could resume talks in the future.A week ago, the British prime minister was on the brink of resignations by cabinet officials and a crushing defeat in Parliament over her Brexit plan. Now, she has won another two weeks to tweak her agreement and convince lawmakers to back it.Mrs. May won a set of votes last night that had previously threatened to undermine her control of the Brexit process. The victory followed a partial surrender: She agreed on Tuesday to give Parliament the option of seeking to delay Britain’s exit from the E.U.“Theresa May is closer to leading Britain out of the European Union with a Brexit deal than at any other point since her negotiations with Brussels began,” Therese Raphael of Bloomberg Opinion writes. Hard-line Euroskeptic M.P.s like Jacob Rees-Mogg have softened their opposition to Mrs. May’s plans, fearing that the alternative might be remaining in the E.U.But her offer of a potential delay could fall apart. President Emmanuel Macron said France might veto such a move “without a clear understanding of the aim that’s being pursued.”More: Britain’s opposition Labour Party formally backed a new referendum on Brexit. Britain won approval to remain in a key World Trade Organization agreement. And Norway’s $1 trillion wealth fund said it would continue to invest in Britain, on the basis that its 30-year time horizon wasn’t affected by political issues like Brexit.News stories about Americans outraged by smaller tax refunds are everywhere. But Neil Irwin of the Upshot says the furor isn’t rooted in logic.• “The tax law that President Trump signed at the end of 2017 reduced the average American household’s 2018 average federal income tax obligation by about $1,600, according to an analysis by the Tax Policy Center.”• But it meant that many workers prepaid less tax. The average tax refund filed through mid-February was down 17 percent from the same time last year, according to the I.R.S.• A dollar today is worth more than a dollar tomorrow, Mr. Irwin notes — which means a lower initial bill is worth more than a bigger refund.• Economists remain baffled by the phenomenon of people even wanting refunds. “Why do they want to make interest-free loans to the government?” asks Richard Thaler, the Nobel-winning economist.Car ownership is falling out of fashion — under pressure from rising prices, tightening environmental rules, ride-hailing competition and the promise of a self-driving future. In its latest cover story, Bloomberg Businessweek argues that trend could continue:• “A decade ago the auto industry predicted annual global vehicle sales would top 100 million by now, but they’ve stalled instead, falling to 94.2 million last year, down 1 million from 2017.”• “Major urban centers such as London, Madrid, and Mexico City are restricting cars’ access. Such constraints, plus the expansion of the sharing economy and the advent of the autonomous age, have made automakers nervous.”• “ ‘When you put all these trends together, you’re going to see a cap on personal vehicle ownership start to emerge,’ says Mike Ramsey, an automotive consultant with researcher Gartner Inc. ‘We are near peak car.’ ”• “Rather than signaling the end of the road for the automobile, peak car is a reflection that reurbanization and the widespread adoption of mobile apps that can summon a vehicle on demand will lessen the need for many of the 1.3 billion vehicles now on the road.”• “Automakers may talk a good game about moving metal, but increasingly they’re chasing profits expected to come from services that charge by the mile.”A new World Bank report examined 35 indicators of legal equality in 187 countries to understand how easy it is for women to work and earn money.It rates only six countries as giving women full legal equality: Belgium, Denmark, France, Latvia, Luxembourg and Sweden. By its measures, none did so a decade ago. America isn’t even in its top 60 countries for legal environments that help promote gender parity in the workplace.That’s a problem. “Economies that failed to implement reforms toward gender equality over the past 10 years, for example, saw a smaller increase in the percentage of women working overall and in the percentage of women working relative to men,” Kristalina Georgieva, the World Bank Group’s interim president, writes.“If women have equal opportunities to reach their full potential, the world would not only be fairer, it would be more prosperous as well,” she said in a statement. “Change is happening, but not fast enough.”More: How income inequality can affect mental health.CBS reportedly plans to choose its next chief executive by the end of March, with the interim C.E.O., Joseph Ianniello, and Hasbro’s chief, Brian Goldner, seen as front-runners.The law firm Freshfields hired Aimen Mir, a former Treasury Department official who oversaw the American panel responsible for national security reviews of transactions, as a partner.DealsOne of Bristol-Myers Squibb’s biggest shareholders, Wellington Management, opposes its $74 billion bid for Celgene. (WSJ)Elliott Management has demanded seats on the boards of several Hyundai companies. (Bloomberg)The German pharmaceutical and chemicals company Merck bid $5.9 billion to buy Versum Materials, in the hope of breaking up a deal with a rival, Entegris. (FT)Disney is reportedly in talks to buy AT&T’s 10 percent stake in the streaming service Hulu. (Variety)KKR and Tencent Music are said to be weighing potential investments in Vivendi’s Universal Music unit. (Reuters)Politics and policyThe attorney general for the District of Columbia has subpoenaed documents from President Trump’s inaugural committee. (NYT)The House voted yesterday to require background checks for all gun buyers, the biggest gun-control bill that it has passed in 25 years. (NYT)Beto O’Rourke is reportedly close to announcing that he will run for president in 2020. (Dallas Morning News)State intervention in companies is making a comeback in Europe. (Bloomberg)TechHere are 10 breakthrough technologies that Bill Gates says will change the world. (MIT Technology Review)Could Elon Musk talk himself into a Tesla buyout? Also, look out for an announcement from the company at 5 p.m. Eastern today. (Breakingviews, Twitter)Facebook says it fired an employee who leaked internal communications about content moderation to a group accusing the company of bias against conservatives. (Verge)The F.T.C. announced a $5.7 million settlement with Musical.ly over accusations that the company’s app illegally collected children’s personal information. (NYT)Best of the restWhy are there suddenly so many $100 bills? (CNBC)As its economy sags, China is reportedly facing job losses and troubling infrastructure debt. (CNBC, WSJ)The venture capitalist Michael Moritz will sponsor the Booker Prize for the next five years. (FT)How debt makes the markets volatile. (WSJ op-ed)The stock rout at the end of 2018 reportedly wiped $1 trillion off the fortunes of the world’s richest individuals. (AP)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump escalated the border wall fight in a televised speech last night, at the cost of leaving the government partly closed. He criticized political opponents for blocking the wall, although Democrats have offered $1.3 billion for border security measures like surveillance and fencing.The effects of the shutdown have begun to ripple across the economy, with mortgage applications delayed or canceled, public companies unable to complete deals and the well running dry for many federal employees.• Payday would have come this week for many of the 800,000 federal workers affected. With no paychecks on the way, their savings are evaporating and their credit cards are being maxed out.• The impasse is being felt elsewhere in the economy, including in home sales. Buyers are pulling out because of “economic uncertainty,” according to a National Association of Realtors survey. And closings are being delayed or canceled because customers’ mortgages were backed by federal agencies.• Several regulators are down to a skeleton staff, and companies are telling investors that their pending takeovers and stock sales could be delayed.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Trade talks in Beijing wrapped up today, as Chinese and American negotiators hurry to strike a deal before March, when the Trump administration has threatened to raise tariffs again.In recent weeks, the Chinese have made some concessions, resuming purchases of American soybeans, dropping retaliatory measures on U.S.-made cars. China has also offered to welcome more foreign investors and help limit forced transfer of overseas companies’ technology to Chinese businesses.Yesterday, President Trump wrote on Twitter that the discussions were “going very well!”But in Washington, many are sounding a note of caution: Are China’s promises too vague? Are they enforceable? One scholar described Beijing’s compromises as “a modest adjustment” when the U.S. and other countries want a “great leap in liberalization.”The Kim surprise:  Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, stepped off a train in Beijing yesterday to meet with President Xi Jinping, at the Chinese government’s invitation. China said the timing of his arrival was coincidental, but his presence was a reminder that the U.S. needs China’s cooperation to exert pressure on North Korea.Scheduling issues: The Trump administration has said that if negotiations fail, it will raise tariffs on Chinese goods on March 2. But there are several other key dates in play.• Mr. Trump will attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, which starts Jan. 22. But the U.S. is reluctant to set up formal trade negotiations there, possibly because the president plans to use his State of the Union address, on Jan. 29, to demand broader powers to raise tariffs.• But China wants progress before the Lunar New Year on Feb. 4, which is generally preceded by a surge in consumer spending.China has reason to rush: The trade tensions are hurting its economy.• The World Bank said yesterday that Chinese growth would slow to 6.2 percent this year from 6.5 percent last year. Global growth is predicted to fall to 2.9 percent from 3 percent in 2018.• Corporate insolvencies are expected to increase faster in China than in any other major economy this year, growing by a fifth in 2019.• Chinese bond yields are at a two-year low. Its central bank loosened credit conditions five times in the past year.• Signs of progress in the talks drove markets higher in the U.S. yesterday and in Europe and Asia today.The struggling retailer reached a deal yesterday to stay alive after a flurry of last-minute negotiations, the NYT’s Michael Corkery writes. Sears’s chairman, Edward Lampert, a hedge fund manager who took control in 2005, now has the opportunity to sweeten his $4.4 billion bid for the company. He is expected to enter an official bid at a court-supervised auction next week.Sears’ largest creditors are in the driving seat, and they have two options. They can let Mr. Lampert try to maintain it as a “going concern” or force it to liquidate by selling all its real estate, inventory, intellectual property and other assets.Other retail news: In the first retail holiday update, J.C. Penney reported yesterday that adjusted comparable sales fell 3.5 percent during the crucial shopping period. The department store chain, based in Plano, Tex., also said it would close three stores and may announce more as its new chief executive, Jill Soltau, attempts a turnaround.The media tycoon Sumner Redstone, 95, settled a long-running legal conflict with Manuela Herzer, writes Edmund Lee of the NYT. It was ostensibly focused on her right to his holdings, but it drew interest because of the salacious details it disclosed and the questions it raised about his mental state.Mr. Redstone and his daughter, Shari Redstone, run the private theater chain National Amusements, through which they control the CBS television network and a portfolio of companies at Viacom that include MTV and Paramount Pictures.Ms. Herzer, who is at least four decades younger than Mr. Redstone, had been named as a beneficiary of his will until he stripped her from the document in 2015 and forced her out of his mansion in Beverly Hills.Fallout from the ensuing court battle led Mr. Redstone to scale back his involvement in CBS and Viacom, and prompted a succession struggle that put his daughter at the top of the media empire.Court filings show that Ms. Herzer must now pay back $3.25 million in gifts and money received while she was Mr. Redstone’s companion.Investment bankers at the embattled financial institution are steeling themselves for a double-digit cut to their bonus pool, according to the FT.Deutsche has been battered by bad news in the past year: Its stock price hit record lows, competitors are gobbling up its market share, and top-level employees are jumping ship as it fires thousands of others. In the third quarter, the bank said that revenue at its trading desk sank 15 percent.Last year, the company paid out 2.2 billion euros in incentives to employees; the final amount for this year will be announced on March 22.MetLife said Michel Khalaf, president of the insurer’s U.S. and Europe, Middle East and Africa businesses, would become its chief executive when Steven Kandarian retires on April 30. (WSJ)Herbalife Nutrition said Michael Johnson would return as its chief executive, after Richard Goudis, his successor, resigned over comments made before his promotion. (WSJ)Monzo, a banking start-up, is hiring Gary Hoffman, a former Barclays vice chairman who steered Northern Rock through its emergency bailout early in the financial crisis, as chairman. He will replace Denise Kingsmill. (FT)Deals• Executives from Siemens and Alstom met yesterday with Margrethe Vestager, the European Union competition commissioner, in an effort to rescue their troubled rail deal. (Bloomberg)• A six-month lockup period on stock in the smartphone maker Xiaomi expires today, letting employees and cornerstone investors sell shares. (Bloomberg)• Mexico’s new government is looking to woo investors and bolster initial public offerings by reducing its tax rate on them. (FT)• GlaxoSmithKline will look to buy early-stage assets and make partnerships, said the drugmaker’s chief executive, Emma Walmsley. (Reuters)Tech• Larry Ellison, the executive chairman of Oracle and a longtime friend of Elon Musk, disclosed a $1 billion stake in Tesla in regulatory filings. (MarketWatch)• Facebook, Twitter and YouTube are seeking input from hundreds of groups, including right-leaning ones, to help referee political speech. (WSJ)• Want to delete the Facebook app? On some Samsung smartphones, you can’t. (Bloomberg)• Skyworks, which supplies semiconductors to Apple, lowered its earnings guidance, citing weakness across its largest smartphone customers. (CNBC)• Apple’s Tim Cook earned $15.6 million last year, according to a regulatory finding — an increase of nearly 22 percent over 2017. (CNET)• Mr. Cook criticized Qualcomm as charging “exorbitant prices” to use its patents and employing “illegal” licensing policies, dashing hopes of a settlement in the companies’ legal fight. (CNBC)• Officials in Vietnam say Facebook failed to remove “slanderous content,” violating local law. (FT)Politics and policy• Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chief, shared polling data with an associate tied to Russian intelligence during the 2016 race, prosecutors said. (NYT)• There’s a sealed grand jury subpoena demanding information from an unnamed foreign corporation, which may or may not be from Robert Mueller’s special counsel investigation. The Supreme Court is letting it proceed. (NYT)• The Russian lawyer who met with Trump campaign officials in 2016, Natalia Veselnitskaya, was charged by federal prosecutors in Manhattan with trying to thwart a separate money-laundering investigation. (NYT)• Democrats are demanding a delay in the Trump administration’s plan to lift sanctions on the aluminum businesses run by Oleg Deripaska, a Russian billionaire linked to the Kremlin. (FT)Best of the rest• Barbie is heading to the big screen, in a live-action film starring and co-produced by Margot Robbie. The news of the film lifted stock in the toy’s manufacturer, Mattel. (FT)• Has the market hit bottom? There are arguments either way. (Bloomberg)• Steve Eisman, the fund manager known for his role in the book “The Big Short,” is nervous about another threat to the financial system: BBB-rated corporate bonds. (FT)• Small-cap stocks seem poised for another year of double-digit profit gains, even as earnings at larger firms falter. (WSJ)• Chinese buyers have been the top foreign investors in both units and dollar volume of residential real estate for six years straight, with a focus on million-dollar properties. Now, more middle-class investors are hunting for affordable homes. (CNBC)• It may be the wrong time for anything radical at Barclays, but the activist Edward Bramson might still be good on its board. (WSJ)• By 2030, emerging markets are likely to have blossomed into seven of the top 10 economies in the world, with China at the top of the list and India surpassing the U.S. (Bloomberg)• American stock values: headed for a “conscious recoupling” with global equities? (WSJ)• Dubai’s ruler has plans to triple the size of his city-state’s financial center. (FT)• Hedge funds posted a 4.07 percent annual loss last year, beating the market’s performance for the first time in a decade; the S&P 500 fell 4.38 percent. (CNBC)• Palladium is on a tear, with the metal’s per-ounce price rising more than 140 percent since the beginning of 2016 and reaching $1,329 yesterday. It’s primarily used in catalytic converters, and became more expensive than gold in December. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you Thursday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.MNG Enterprises, the owner of one of the largest newspaper businesses in the country, made a $12-per-share offer today for Gannett, the publisher of USA Today and dozens of other publications.The news: The proposal from MNG, which owns 200 publications, to buy Gannett represents a 41 percent premium over the company’s closing price at the end of last year. MNG, which has a history of acquiring struggling local papers and cutting costs, has a 7.5 percent stake in Gannett, making it Gannett’s largest active shareholder. Gannett’s stock price surged in premarket trading after the bid.The back story: Over the past few years, MNG has made several approaches about a deal, only to be rebuffed, the WSJ reported. Gannett, whose shares have dropped in recent years, has been seeking to remake itself. In 2016, it backed off a bid to acquire Tronc, the media company now known as Tribune Publishing.The backlash: MNG, one of the largest newspaper chains in the country, owns about 200 newspapers and publications including The Denver Post and The Orange County Register. Last year, frustrated journalists at The Denver paper criticized its owner, making the case for its survival.In related news: The East Bay Express, an alternative weekly in San Francisco, laid off almost its entire editorial staff on Friday, its publisher said, adding that it would rely instead on freelance writers. And after a challenge from Stephen King, The Portland Press Herald in Maine said it would bring back its local book reviews if the author and his followers brought in 100 new subscriptions. They brought in twice that.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Electric vehicles will be a hot topic at the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, which opens to the news media and industry executives today and to the public on Saturday.Automakers are preparing to introduce dozens of electric cars and hybrid vehicles over the next few years, the NYT’s Neal Boudette writes. But to sell those cars, they will have to attract a new class of customer:“Mainstream consumers may be harder to win over than the wealthy luxury car buyers, hard-core environmentalists and early adopters who have flocked to buy Model 3s and delivered Tesla’s rapid sales growth. That may be especially true in the middle of the country, because charging stations are more sparse there than on the coasts, where most Tesla models are sold.”The longest government shutdown in American history, dragging into its 24th day today, could become a side note in an “all-out political war for survival,” as President Trump faces intensifying concerns about his relationship with Russia and its president, Vladimir Putin. The NYT’s Peter Baker writes:“Instead of talks to end the shutdown, the president spent at least part of his weekend defending himself against the suspicions about his affinity for Mr. Putin.”In recent days, The Washington Post found that President Trump had repeatedly tried to hide details of his conversations with Mr. Putin. The NYT reported on the F.B.I.’s counterintelligence investigation of Mr. Trump, which was initiated after he fired James Comey as F.B.I. director and questioned whether he had been influenced by Russia.Asked in an interview on Fox News on Saturday night if he was a Russian agent, President Trump said it was “the most insulting thing I’ve ever been asked.” He did not issue an explicit denial.The new Democratic House majority has seized on the revelations, adding another pressure point in President Trump’s strained relationship with Congress. Negotiations to end the shutdown, at a standstill over President Trump’s demand for border wall funding, could end up on the back burner, even as contagion effects seep through the economy.• As a result of the shutdown, 800,000 federal workers are either furloughed or working without pay, and many are filing for unemployment benefits. NASA laboratories, Smithsonian museums and other sites in Washington are empty. There are fewer food inspections, longer airport security lines and more trash in those national parks that are still open.• Air traffic controllers working without pay in New York on Friday received a pizza delivery from colleagues in Canada.• More than 300 small-business loans — or nearly $200 million in capital — are not being approved each day.• Contract workers, who will most likely not be reimbursed for unpaid wages, may be especially hard hit.• Wall Street deals that require national security reviews or approval from antitrust regulators will have to wait.• GoFundMe will refund more than $20 million in donations raised to help fund the border wall. The campaign organizer, Brian Kolfage, had initially promised to return the funds if the effort fell short of its $1 billion goal.This week brings quarterly results from major banks, with Citigroup reporting today, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo tomorrow, Bank of America and Goldman Sachs on Wednesday and Morgan Stanley on Thursday.The last three months of 2018 were rough for the six financial giants, which lost more than $200 billion in value amid a record stock sell-off. The new year has only intensified nervousness over slowing global growth while providing a steady drumbeat of unimpressive holiday sales, and slashed revenue and profit forecasts.Risk aversion in the market has cramped liquidity, leading to increased warnings about volatility fueled by automated trading programs. And the effect of the 2017 tax overhaul is waning, putting companies in the difficult position of comparing their current lackluster results with their strong performance after the law first went into effect.The cavalcade of data demonstrating China’s slowing economic growth continues, with the largest drop in exports in two years.Analysts had expected the Chinese government to report a gain in outbound shipments for December. Instead, the dollar value of exports slumped 4.4 percent from a year earlier, as Chinese electronics and other products struggled to excite international consumers.Imports fell 7.6 percent; domestic demand for goods is weakening, with car sales contracting for the first time in more than two decades last year, and sliding 13 percent last month in the sixth straight month of declines.The figures underscored a recent refrain on Wall Street: China’s powerhouse economic engine is sputtering.• China’s overall trade surplus is at its lowest level since 2013. However, even amid a bitter trade feud with the Trump administration, China’s surplus with the United States is the largest it has been in more than a decade, with exports from China growing 11.3 percent last year, compared with a 0.7 percent increase in imports from the U.S.• But China’s foreign direct investment in North America and Europe has slumped to a six-year low. American regulators are intensifying their oversight of deals with Chinese companies, and Chinese officials have tightened the flow of funds overseas. Chinese investment in the U.S. fell 83 percent last year, while its investments in Canada surged 80 percent.• Foreign companies continue to complain about barriers in China. Applications submitted by Visa and Mastercard to process renminbi payments have been largely ignored by China’s central bank, according to the FT.• Equity markets in Asia and Europe slipped on hearing on of the unexpected contraction in exports.Michael Bloomberg’s publisher recently released a revised edition of his 1997 book, “Bloomberg by Bloomberg,” and Andrew notes that it offers some nuggets about the roles of government and philanthropy that could become talking points on the campaign trail if he runs for president in 2020.• “Philanthropy has traditionally been thought of as an alternative to government — and in some cases, it is. But I also see it as a way to embolden government.”• “There are powerful disincentives working against government innovation, because innovation involves risk, and risk involves the potential for failure. And if there’s one thing that scares politicians — not to mention their political advisers — it’s failure.”• “The second disincentive working against innovation in government is more understandable: fiduciary duty. As an elected official, you are responsible for spending taxpayers’ dollars wisely, and it can be hard to justify spending the public’s money on an untested idea, especially when budgets are already stretched thin. That’s where philanthropy comes in.”NBC and Megyn Kelly reached a final agreement on Friday to part ways, nearly three months after she wondered aloud on-air why it was inappropriate for white people to dress up in blackface for Halloween. (NYT)Pacific Gas and Electric Company, which is planning a bankruptcy filing, said its chief executive, Geisha Williams, was stepping down. John Simon, the company’s general counsel, will serve as interim chief executive during the search. (NYT)Deals• Goldman Sachs has tried to pin the blame for an international multibillion-dollar fraud in Malaysia on a few rogue bankers, but the government of Malaysia is not buying it. (NYT)• Viacom, which has been in China for more than two decades but has struggled to grow its presence there, is in talks to sell a majority stake in some of its operations there. (WSJ)• L’Occitane International, the cosmetics firm, will buy the beauty brand Elemis for around $900 million. (Bloomberg)• The Singapore developer CapitaLand agreed to buy two property units from the state investor Temasek Holdings for $4.4 billion, a deal it said would create Asia’s largest diversified real estate company. (Bloomberg)• Anheuser-Busch InBev, the Belgium-based maker of Budweiser, is said to be considering an initial public offering of its Asian operations that could raise more than $5 billion. (Bloomberg)Tech• E.U. antitrust regulators have until Feb. 18 to decide whether to approve the merger of the rail operations of Siemens and Alstom, but they must now consider serious doubts from the German government. (Reuters)• High-tech farming outside Pittsburgh has given rise to cows in Fitbit-like collars milked by robots, and an automated greenhouse filled with kale and baby carrots. (NYT)• Elon Musk’s SpaceX will lay off roughly 10 percent of its work force, including 577 positions at its headquarters in Southern California. (Bloomberg)• MacKenzie Bezos is a novelist and an ambassador for Amazon. Public fascination with her private life has exploded since her divorce was announced. (NYT)• Amazon became the largest company in the world by market capitalization this month. Its ascendancy is a reminder that the biggest companies can be toppled. (WSJ)• Samsung, hoping to catch up to Chinese rivals such as Xiaomi, will introduce the budget M-series smartphones in India before selling them globally. (Reuters)Politics and policy• The British Parliament is set to vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal tomorrow. (BBC)• Will John Bolton, the national security adviser, instigate a conflict with Iran just as President Trump is pulling American troops out of the Middle East? The possibility worries senior Pentagon officials. (NYT)• A homegrown disinformation campaign in Alabama led Russian news sources to report: “The only ‘Russian bots’ to meddle in U.S. elections belonged to Democrat-linked experts.” (NYT)• President Emmanuel Macron of France has begun a three-month initiative to quell unrest in the country while sticking to his economic reform agenda. (Reuters)• Marine Le Pen, the leader of the far-right party in France, began a campaign for the European Parliament with an appeal to the “yellow vest” protest movement. (Reuters)Best of the rest • Larry Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager, was challenged to push harder on climate-related shareholder resolutions. (FT)• Many large hedge funds reported substantial losses in 2018, as stock market declines and interest rate increases created difficulties for the investment industry. (FT)• Britain is creating a task force to crack down on fraud, corruption and dirty money. (Reuters)• Economists are producing forecasts for the British economy based on an exit treaty, a no-deal Brexit and the possibility of Britain remaining in the European Union. (FT)• Coaching contracts negotiated in the past week hint that the N.F.L. is seeking to protect itself from a possible work stoppage in 2021. (ESPN)• John Mackey, the chief executive of Whole Foods, told employees the grocery chain had scrapped plans to expand its lower-priced Whole Foods 365 stores. (Yahoo)• Mozambique’s governing party has been mostly silent since the nation’s former finance minister and former Credit Suisse bankers were indicted in one of Africa’s biggest corruption cases. (FT)• Sales of gin have soared in Britain. Now, distillers who are eager to avoid market saturation are in search of a global cocktail crowd. (NYT)• India surpassed Germany in autos sales, becoming the fourth-largest market in the world. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Tuesday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Trade talks between midlevel American and Chinese officials, extended from a planned two days to three, ended yesterday in Beijing after negotiators made progress but released few details.What happened: According to U.S. officials, negotiators discussed intellectual property protections, so-called forced tech transfer and China’s promise to buy “substantial” amounts of American agricultural, energy and manufacturing products. China’s commerce ministry spoke of “extensive, in-depth and meticulous exchanges.” Wang Qishan, China’s vice president, said today that the two countries “must adapt to the new reality, keep looking for and expanding our common interests, deepening and promoting practical cooperation.”What’s next: No date or location is set for the next round of talks. Higher-level discussions could occur in Davos, Switzerland, if President Trump attends the World Economic Forum meeting there, starting Jan. 22. But he may cancel if the partial government shutdown is not resolved by then. China’s economic czar is expected to visit Washington sometime after that. The Trump administration has set a March 2 deadline to wrap up negotiations, after which it says it could raise tariffs.What’s at stake: If China and the U.S. let tensions escalate and investors pull back, “you’re looking at enough of a tightening in financial conditions to say that a global recession is a real risk,” Peter Hooper, a former Federal Reserve official and Deutsche Bank’s chief economist, told Bloomberg.President Trump wants to calm volatile financial markets. And China’s leader, Xi Jinping, needs to perk up a slowing economy. A measure of factory prices in China last month showed the slowest increase since late 2016. Former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers told Bloomberg Television yesterday that there is “pretty clear evidence that things have slowed down a fair amount in China.”“There are a lot of grounds for concern,” he added.What else: • Auto importers in the Chinese port city of Tianjin are rushing to get American-made cars through customs, taking advantage of a temporary cut in the 40 percent tariff that Beijing imposed on them last July.• Amid suspicion from the F.B.I. and American universities, China is going quiet about its “Thousand Talents Program,” which has attracted thousands of scientists and experts to the country since 2008.• The Hang Seng stock index in Hong Kong recorded its best day in more than a month yesterday and closed on its fifth straight rally today. U.S. equities also rose, though not as much as in recent days.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Welcome to Day 20 of the shutdown, which could become the longest in history on Saturday. Yesterday, President Trump stormed out of a meeting with congressional leaders, throwing what Democrats described as a “temper tantrum” over his demand to fund a border wall, a key sticking point in talks to reopen the government. On Twitter, he called the session “a total waste of time.” The NYT writes:The contentious, brief and futile session underscored an impasse that is looking each day like an insurmountable gulf between the two sides.Today, President Trump will visit the border in McAllen, Tex. Yesterday, he reiterated a threat to invoke emergency powers to fund his wall without congressional approval. That, writes Charlie Savage in the NYT, “would be an extraordinary violation of constitutional norms — and establish a precedent for presidents who fail to win approval for funding a policy goal.”Some consequences of the stalemate:• In Washington, one of the richest areas in the country, it’s affecting retailers, tourist centers, salons, garbage bins and more.• Nationwide, restaurants struggling with a severe worker shortage said they will continue hiring even though they can no longer check recruits’ immigration status online.• Coast Guard employees received a five-page tip sheet suggesting that they could stay afloat without their paychecks through garage sales, babysitting, dog-walking, serving as “mystery shoppers” or, as a last resort, declaring bankruptcy.• This was expected to be a banner year for I.P.O.s. But with work halted at regulators, it could be only the fourth year since 1995 when no major company goes public in January. Other deals, including CVS’s purchase of Aetna, could also be delayed.Two Federal Reserve officials said yesterday that the central bank should assess economic conditions before it considers raising rates again. And they did so as the Fed released the minutes of its December meeting, showing that it reached the same conclusion.The takeaway: Central bank officials are now not likely to raise the benchmark interest rate at their January meeting nor at one in mid-March, writes the NYT’s Binyamin Appelbaum. But they still expect strong enough economic growth to justify increases this year.The reaction: Jerome Powell, the Fed chairman, was criticized for not saying more to soothe investors in December. “He could have handled that differently, and better,” one economist said. The dollar fell to a three-month low against the euro after the meeting minutes were released.The next step: The Fed is considering options to keep interest rates in its target range. One approach would be to slow the decline of bank reserves in the system.Theresa May, Britain’s prime minister, is getting backed into a corner over Brexit — and she knows it.Her plans for how Britain’s departure from the European Union will play out are strongly expected to be rejected by Parliament in a vote next week — two and a half years after Britons voted to leave the bloc in a referendum, and a month after this vote was first scheduled.Yesterday, lawmakers moved to block Mrs. May from stalling further. They have also passed a measure aimed at making it harder for the government to exit the E.U. without a deal.The withdrawal is scheduled for March 29. Many are concerned that, without an agreement with Brussels in place, economic chaos could ensue. Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, meets with Mrs. May today, and automakers such as Honda, Nissan and Toyota, which manufacture in Britain for export into continental Europe, are pushing him to press the case against a no-deal Brexit.Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, pushed for fresh elections if Parliament turns down Mrs. May’s plan. The British public is still deeply conflicted over the E.U., as shown in these charts from Bloomberg.President Moon Jae-in of South Korea has embraced a pro-labor program of higher wages and taxes, but the early results have been discouraging, writes the NYT’s Michael Schuman.Growth has slowed, unemployment has risen and small-business owners are complaining. The troubles suggest South Korea’s limits in solving economic problems, especially without addressing underlying structural issues. Rapid changes like Mr. Moon’s can also have unintended consequences. The biggest is the strain on small businesses, which are often unable to pass on higher costs to their customers.U.S.-North Korea talks:  A second summit meeting between the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Trump to negotiate the terms of denuclearizing the North is “close,” Mr. Moon said today after Mr. Kim’s visit to China this week. He added that North Korea should take more concrete steps to secure U.S. concessions.Fiat Chrysler Automobiles will pay nearly $650 million to settle lawsuits over illegal software that allowed diesel vehicles to thwart emissions tests and release higher levels of pollutants, according to the NYT.The settlement, which is expected to be announced today, does not include an admission of guilt by the company or a declaration of wrongdoing by the Environmental Protection Agency. Earlier, the agency found that Fiat used technology that could turn off pollution controls under certain driving conditions.The Justice Department sued Fiat over the issue in 2017. The company will recall 104,000 diesel-powered Ram 1500 trucks and Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility vehicles to install new software.Other auto news: • Tesla’s chief, Elon Musk, wrote on Twitter yesterday that it will stop selling the cheapest versions of its Model S sedan and Model X sport utility vehicle from Monday, and suggested that the upcoming Roadster sports car might be able to levitate.• Rolls-Royce had record sales last year, as wealthy buyers spent some of their gains from the Trump administration’s tax cuts.• Toyota is recalling 1.7 million vehicles in North America, 1.3 million in the U.S., to replace potentially lethal Takata front passenger airbag inflaters.• The Pixar co-founder John Lasseter, who resigned from Disney in June after complaints about unwanted touching, will build an animation production company affiliated with Paramount. (NYT)• Larry Fink, chief executive of the asset manager BlackRock, promoted Mark Wiedman to a new international role that positions him as a likely heir. (FT)• Greg Palm is retiring as Goldman Sachs’s co-general counsel after more than 20 years there. (Bloomberg)• Michael Bright, a top official at the government-owned mortgage guarantor Ginnie Mae, is said to be stepping down to join a trade group. (Bloomberg)• Gordon Brown, the former British prime minister, will advise the Partners Group, a private equity firm in Switzerland, on so-called impact investments. (WSJ)Deals• Edward Lampert, the hedge fund founder and chairman of Sears, has submitted a revised bid of roughly $5 billion in an effort to save the retailer from liquidation. (CNBC)Tech• Check out A.I. assistants, 5G wireless and other trends in a visual tour of the CES electronics trade show. (NYT)• Also at CES, a battle between two vegan burger start-ups. (FT)• Liverpool John Lennon Airport is testing anti-drone equipment after shutdowns at Heathrow and Gatwick. (FT)• Oracle has paid more than $200 million for naming rights to the San Francisco Giants’ stadium. (Bloomberg)• China’s top media regulator omitted Tencent from its list of approved video game titles. (FT)Politics and policy • Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, is expected to leave the Justice Department once an attorney general is confirmed. (NYT)• House Democrats have summoned Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to explain his plan to end sanctions on companies controlled by Oleg Deripaska, a Kremlin ally. (NYT)• Prime Minister Edouard Philippe of France promised to forge ahead with an economic overhaul, despite “yellow jackets” protests. (FT)• The billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer said he would not run for president in 2020, but would spend at least $40 million this year to promote impeaching President Trump. (WSJ)Best of the rest • Ford said today that it would cut thousands of jobs, exit unprofitable markets and discontinue loss-making vehicle lines as part of a turnaround effort in Europe. (Reuters)• The U.S. food company Mondelez sued its insurance company for refusing to pay a $100 million claim for damage caused by a cyber attack, the first legal dispute of this kind on that scale. (FT)• The Chrysler Building in New York is for sale. The current owners are an Abu Dhabi government fund and Tishman Speyer, a local developer. (WSJ)• Trend-following algorithms, an increasingly important market force, have turned bearish. (WSJ)• MacKenzie Bezos and the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos are divorcing. The split could make her the richest woman in the world, surpassing Francoise Bettencourt Meyers, from the family that founded L’Oreal cosmetics. (Bloomberg)• Ice Cube, the rapper, actor and entrepreneur, wants Viacom’s backing to bid for Fox’s 22 regional sports networks. (Fox)• Why do so many of Eastern Europe’s central bankers face criminal investigations? (Bloomberg)• Avocado demand and prices appear to be in retreat. (WSJ)• Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest oil producer, is likely to issue its first international bond to help finance its potentially $70 billion purchase of the petrochemical giant Sabic. That means disclosing accounts and operational details. (Bloomberg)• An Australian government review recommended closing underperforming funds in the country’s $2 trillion pension system, and letting new employees choose among top performers. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Friday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" 

      By THE NEW YORK TIMES MAGAZINE

MARCH 7, 2019

By Nitsuh AbebeIt usually takes a while — a decade or two — before we can look back at a particular era of American life and see it as something coherent, something whose every aspect is marked by one overarching mood. It takes a certain amount of hindsight to notice how all the wildly different reactions people had to the moment were still, in the end, reactions to the same thing; all the different poses they adopted were still being struck against the same backdrop.But this era — this year, and the last one, and one or two before that — might be an exception. There’s an oddly strong in-the-moment consensus on how everyone is feeling these days, and it is not good. At some point it became a routine conversational tic for all sorts of people, of all sorts of persuasions, to express, with an incredulous gesture, that things feel a bit grueling and frantic lately, don’t they? Musicians are no exception. “Life is pretty tumultuous right now for all of us,” said the crossover country star Kacey Musgraves, while accepting a Grammy for the Album of the Year. The Swedish singer Robyn acknowledges that “pop at the moment is depressing” in an interview midway through this issue. “The music kids are listening to is heavy! Maybe it’s hard to be positive and optimistic at the moment.”What’s amazing is that the musical expression of all this isn’t always some big swing toward darkness, or anger, or anxiety. (Though there is, in certain genres, plenty of all that as well.) Read through this list, and what you’ll often see instead is a very earnest, very serious desire to find the right reaction to a world that feels tense and high-stakes — an ambient conviction that music should be looking for ways to cope, ways to protect ourselves, moments of escape, hard reckonings with our collective responsibilities, ideas for how to make the world feel less brutal. The 25 songs and artists below include blockbuster hits, critical darlings and inescapable conversation pieces, but few of them take a direct route to the usual joys of pop — the songs about dancing and boasting and sex and love, the ones about what a fantastic night everyone’s about to have or what ecstasies they intend to find by the end of it. No, a lot of these songs seem focused on deeper challenges: How do we get to those joys in the first place? Who gets to have them, and who deserves them? And in one case: Which of them are worth the corresponding rise in sea levels?The artists do not always sound thrilled about the circumstances. (“The society we live in at the moment,” Robyn says — “we didn’t really make it very good, you know?”) But they’re a lot more motivated — whether it’s to articulate something bleak or find their way toward something better — than you might expect.Nitsuh Abebe is a story editor for the magazine.Photo illustration source photographs: Rosalía: Christian Bertrand/Alamy. The 1975: Dafydd Owen/Newscom. Davidson: John Londono/Ninja Tune. All other source photographs: Getty Images.How aging — and the age — can change a song’s meaning.By HANIF ABDURRAQIBI don’t know if Bruce Springsteen thinks about death as much as I think about the inevitability of his dying. I’ve lived an entire life as a fan of Bruce Springsteen, which means I have already imagined the world without him in it, and I have mourned that world. If you’re lucky enough to age gracefully beyond a certain point, with that aging will come an acceptance of finality or of the idea that there is going to be a darkness from which you can’t return. If you’re lucky enough to have made a life writing songs or stories or something at the intersection of songs and stories, this could mean that there comes a point where you make sure people hear you clearly, one last time, before you go.I don’t know if Springsteen himself thinks about his life and death in this way, but the silences in “Springsteen on Broadway” — which ran on Broadway from Oct. 3, 2017, to Dec. 15, 2018, culminating in a soundtrack and a Netflix special — suggest he might. The spaces he built in between the songs allow the artist to explain and give context not to just the music but also to the life built around the music. If the project of Springsteen’s Broadway show was to attach histories and legacies to the individual songs long adored by the public, there is also something to be said about what time does to natural storytellers. They can become more tactile with age, drawing out stories that have been told several times before the most current retelling — leaving a listener with even more touchable moments than otherwise might have been asked for or sought, so that when the storyteller is long gone, there might still be fragments of his or her stories that span generations.Of the many gripping examples of this in “Springsteen on Broadway,” the one that stands out most memorably is the sprawling story he tells before playing his iconic (and often misconstrued song) “Born in the U.S.A.” The story centers on Walter Cichon, who was the frontman for the Motifs, a band Springsteen still considers one of the best rock ’n’ roll bands from the Jersey Shore. In the ’60s, the Motifs played weekend shows to rooms packed with teenage admirers. Cichon wore his hair long and sported pointy black boots. When he performed, he would shake out his hair and send beads of sweat flying past the stage lights. For anyone who has ever lived in any town where a band was on the verge of “making it,” you know the epiphany: This band is too good to be here, in this place, in this moment. That was the Motifs, with their frantic and warbly guitars laid below Cichon’s howling vocals.Walter Cichon was drafted when he was 21 and didn’t come back from Vietnam. He went missing in action in 1968.On Broadway, Bruce Springsteen performs “Born in the U.S.A.” largely in silence. The song is half-spoken, half-sung, Springsteen’s voice rough and breaking beneath the decades of labor it has done — labor rendered romantic through writing and performance. What has always been true about the career of Bruce Springsteen is that he’s most entertaining when backed by his pals, but he’s most earnest when he’s alone. To hear “Born in the U.S.A.” presented without an instrument is to hear the strain that pushes toward the edge of anger, that hovering sentiment that was lost in the original’s bombastic wall of sound and perhaps camouflaged by its imagery. At the time of the song’s release, Springsteen was a young, attractive, muscular man who appeared midjump in front of an American flag on the single’s cover. From a zoomed-out perspective — a white musician writing about the intricacies of labor — it could seem as if he represented everything that a particular America would be proud of. The misreading of the original song was not purely accidental: Its volume and fanfare meant that it sounded (and still sounds) good bursting out of speakers while fireworks explode in the sky, and its loudest words in the chorus are about land and birthright. But with the drums and bursts of keyboards gone, the relentlessly hollow hope of the song is gone, too. On the isolated stage of a theater, all that’s left is knowing that the singer has loved and dreamed and lost in a country sometimes not worth loving and dreaming and losing in.In his long monologue introducing “Born in the U.S.A.” on Broadway, Springsteen talks about “the blood and the confusion and the pride and the shame and the grace that comes with birthplace,” and I get it. There are some of us who didn’t ask to be born in our particular here, and there are some of us who didn’t ask to come to this particular here, but to be in wherever your here is means that you might be compelled to both fight for it and forgive it. On Broadway, Springsteen mentions something else: He tells the story of him and two of his friends being summoned to the selective-service office, as a prelude to being sent to Vietnam — for what, he says, “we were sure was going to be our funeral.” They did everything they could to get out of being drafted, and succeeded. He ends the story by exhaling softly and pausing before telling the audience: “I do sometimes wonder who went in my place. Because somebody did.”I imagine that’s it. To live a long enough life in a place founded, in part, on violence and volatility is to know that long life may depend on someone else walking through a door you wanted no part of. Or to know that the heroes from your hometown never made it out because war got to them first. Stripped to its barest bones, “Born in the U.S.A.” asks a listener to recognize that human survival is not something we can count on. The song matters now in a different way than it did in 1984, largely because of the artist behind it: Springsteen, trying to wrestle not only with the song’s current legacy but also with how it might be co-opted decades from now, when he won’t be around to make sure people understand the ache behind the song’s fury.Hanif Abdurraqib is a poet, an essayist and a cultural critic in Columbus, Ohio.The Ambiguous kiss-off.By AMANDA HESS‘Thank u, next” is styled like a tweet, which is how the phrase first appeared — as a cryptic rebuke that Ariana Grande thumbed off in the comedian Pete Davidson’s general direction a few days after their breakup. Since then, the phrase has pulsed through the culture, undulating between naughty and nice. When the song debuted, it was revealed to be not a takedown but instead a sincere tribute to relationships past, lifting Davidson (“for Pete, I’m so thankful”) to the same plane as her ex Mac Miller, the rapper who died of a drug overdose last year (“he was an angel”). But then the video hit, and in it, Grande cosplayed as Regina George, the demon Barbie of “Mean Girls,” scrawling notes about her exes in a burn book. But then all the things she wrote about them were really nice! A quick shot in the video shows the apology she scrawled on Davidson’s page — “sry i dipped” — which was secretly the most savage note of all: For the record, she dumped him.Online, the phrase has bloomed into a deliciously ambiguous kiss-off, a usage modeled by Grande herself, directed toward anyone from a no-name rapper who covered the song to Piers Morgan, who criticized pop stars for appearing in revealing photo shoots. Like the Southern “bless your heart,” the passive-aggressive niceties that sustain the entire Midwest or the chill of the British stiff upper lip, the internet has found a discreet slight of its own in “thank u, next.”The phrase is breezily transactional. It renders news anchors and ex-boyfriends into strangers, reducing them to the base level of politeness required by the social contract. It sharpens respect into a shiv. And yet it is vexing in its restraint, pre-emptively silencing any retaliatory efforts.We are living in a time of great pettiness. A big star can grow two sizes by doing something very small. Bhad Bhabie chucked a drink at Iggy Azalea and cemented her status as a memetic folk hero. Pusha T lobbed a literal baby into the middle of his rap war with Drake. Grande’s grace could, in one reading, signal a rejection of all of this calculated cruelty, a classy subversion of the fan-and-industry expectation that a celebrity may only rise by tearing another down.But it’s also a savvy strategy for advancing the game. The next level of beef is always the high road — ascending to that rarefied realm of conflict where put-downs are joined seamlessly with self-respect. In “thank u, next,” Grande casts her exes as steppingstones on her path to greatness, men who taught her “patience,” “pain” and, ultimately, how little she needed them. There’s nothing harsher than having your relationship converted into a learning experience. And the worst part is, you know she’s right. The secret message of “thank u, next” is that women can dismiss men who sap their energies and undermine their success, and this is not an act of cruelty or a symptom of bitchiness. It’s a simple social nicety.Amanda Hess is a critic at large for The Times. She writes about internet culture for the Arts section.The new R.&B. litmus test requires artists to be accessible, enigmatic and maybe a little bit flawed. Sanging is optional.By ANGELA FLOURNOYFrom the vocal singularity embodied in Aretha Franklin to the otherworldly dance moves of Michael Jackson, black folks have long expected rigor from our R.&B. entertainers. (We institutionalized this expectation at the Apollo Theater, where, on Amateur Night, an “executioner” used to chase away mediocre performers midact with a broom or a pitchfork; now he just dances them off the stage.) Being the best in R.&B. meant that you had a honed, real-deal ability to entertain, that you could stand on a stage and perform a remarkable act that separated you from the rest of us.I grew up hearing debates about the worthiness of this or that singer devolve into shouting matches, the assertion that a favored artist could sing but not really sang being an affront to your system of taste and judgment. Mariah Carey was always an easy win. In a single verse, her melismatic contralto might argue with her teasing falsetto, alternating between lower and higher notes until she sounded more bird than human. In the ’90s, girl-next-door Mariah belted out uptempo love songs on one station; a few turns of the dial over, she sang the same record with the addition of a hip-hop verse, thereby sliding from mainstream to “urban,” which is to say from white to black. She straddled two coded worlds as a biracial person, a sometimes-fraught experience that she addressed on her 1997 song “Outside.”Her desire for cross-genre acceptance is part of what pushed her to write and arrange songs for herself that few other human beings could cover. Through the mid-2000s, to listen to a Mariah album, from lead single to deep cut, was to marvel at a maximalist pulling off her excesses, every run more dazzling than the last. And yet by the end of the aughts, she had begun receding behind her production, talk-singing and whispering where she used to overaccentuate each phrase. The rumored loss of her voice seemed to mark the end of an era altogether.Few people argue over the voice of a singer the way they used to, but R.&B. is back in vogue after having spent several years in the background as E.D.M. dictated pop’s music imperatives. Younger artists are pushing the genre forward in many respects: intriguing, pared-down personal style (SZA); forceful, nuanced messaging (Solange); swaggering vocals that don’t feel yoked to the rap feature (H.E.R.); and a much-needed expansion of whom a woman might be singing love songs to in the first place (Syd). But the terms by which we expect rigor from these artists have changed, too. A voice that sounds as though it were gifted from the heavens is no longer a likely predictor of critical success, though it may garner you a stint on “The Voice.” More important is appearing unvarnished, or idiosyncratic. Contemporary R.&B. seems to prefer the D.I.Y. ethos of indie rock or riffing on the earthy, unadorned feel of neo-soul. The preferred feel is that of a raw outpouring of emotion alone in a bedroom with a laptop. To see R.&B.’s newest names perform at events like the Grammys is a bit like seeing your high school gym teacher on a date — who even knew they owned fancy clothes?Mariah Carey doesn’t seem built for this new R.&B. moment, but “A No No,” from her 2018 album “Caution,” works for all the reasons we would once expect it not to. It’s a straightforward sample of an extremely familiar song (a remix of Lil’ Kim’s 1997 “Crush on You”). Vocally, it’s uncomplicated. The track has a few elastic moments at the top of verses, but for the most part, Carey maintains a syncopated, crooning sing-speak. She comes down from the vocal stratosphere to some place closer to the younger R.&B. chanteuses, but it never feels like a cop-out. “Caution” as a whole forgoes Carey’s hallmark vocal pyrotechnics, save for a few whistle tones that creep into the final notes of several tracks. What makes it different from her previous attempts at less ornate vocal arrangement is the confidence Carey exudes. She isn’t hiding; she’s recalibrating.This new phase of R.&B. is one for which Mariah the songwriter is well suited. She has always been a quick study of current trends, and as a writer on 17 of her 18 No.1 singles, she proved that she knew how to make her voice fit within them. Carey possesses a mischievous sense of humor (best employed on Eminem diss tracks) that is fit for our current age of trolling and lyrics made for memes. In “A No No” she drawls out the line “Irregardless of what transpired,” daring the listener to think too hard about whether she knows that she has deployed a fake word (of course she does). Over the past three decades, Mariah the vocalist has been so singular that other Mariahs went overlooked — the canny recognizer of trends, the pop star who pushed her label to make unlikely hip-hop collaborations happen and the songwriter who was funnier than people understood. Mariah, queen of glitter and lover of glamour, might never pull off a down-to-earth visual aesthetic, but she still possesses the tools to make music that embodies that feeling — and she has had these tools for years.Angela Flournoy is the author of “The Turner House.”He’s been rapping about it for years. Now a lot more people are listening.Interview by NIKOLE HANNAH-JONESLast year, in a span of months, Meek Mill went from solitary confinement in a Pennsylvania prison to releasing an album that debuted at No.1 on the Billboard chart. It’s a paradoxical narrative that has defined the Philadelphia rapper since his teenage years, when he landed both a record deal and criminal convictions on drug and gun charges. Sentenced at 21 to prison and years of probation, the 31-year-old rapper has spent his entire adult life in and out of courts and prison, often for noncriminal violations like not adequately reporting his travel plans.But 2018 proved transformative. New scrutiny of the judge overseeing his probation, and of the initial case — he has always maintained that the police made up charges — roused public support from powerful people, including Jay-Z, Philadelphia’s district attorney and the Philadelphia 76ers co-owner Michael Rubin. With tour dates for his “Championships” album selling out, Mill has become a leading voice on the failings of the criminal-justice system. Along with writing an op-ed for The New York Times and appearing on national news shows, the rapper helped start the Reform Alliance, an organization dedicated to getting one million Americans out of the prison system.How long did you work on the album? Probably eight months. Since I came out.I usually take about eight months to produce a piece as well. Then there’s panic — you’ve gone over it so many times, you can’t even tell anymore if it’s good or not. I feel the same way. Going through the music so much, not even knowing if it’s good anymore — I done heard it at least a thousand times, trying to analyze and look at it so many ways.At the end of “Championships,” you say we had to beat the streets, beat racism, beat poverty. So much of what you write is sociological, a study of the neighborhood. Your being from Philadelphia made me think about W.E.B. Du Bois in 1899 — he did a study called “The Philadelphia Negro.” Yeah, I read pieces of it in prison. One of the older guys probably gave it to me.Then you know what I’m talking about. This was known as the first sociological study of black Americans in the country. He was trying to understand why black folks lived the way they lived. And the social problems he identified — poverty, crime, illiteracy, white discrimination — are the exact same things you talk about 120 years later. That was my life coming up, so it was normal. I always tell people, I’ve been living the life I’m living now for the last eight years, but I’ve been living in the ghetto for 23. Things we’ve been traumatized by our whole lives — we have a right to talk about it.You refer to school a couple of times on this album — your mom praying you’d go to Yale, or going to a school with bullet holes in the lockers. You said you were on the honor roll? I used to be, until, like, third grade. There was another book I got in prison, about black kids — the fourth grade, things go wrong and grades start to decline. That was my life. Mine was because I moved to a different neighborhood, rougher than the one I came from.One of my favorite quotes from James Baldwin is “The kids had been told that they weren’t worth [expletive], and everything they saw around them proved it.” What did your schools say about what society thought of you? We used to have teachers say, “Oh, you’re probably going to be dead or in jail, or you’re probably going to be a failure.” I had some good teachers, too, but it was rough in our schools.I feel like that’s a message we start telling black boys very early: You’re going to be dead or in jail. I know we’re trying to warn them, but it also seems as if you’re dictating their future. Yeah, but I never believed that. I used to say I was going to be a normal story of the ghetto. But if you have your mom telling you you’re going to be a great person and then your teachers talk to you like that — you wouldn’t really want to listen to that person anymore.Was school easy for you? Pretty easy. I didn’t have to study to pass my tests. Even if I ran the hallways, I would still be fairly good. Later on, when I really stopped trying, I was put in disciplinary schools. It was like a jail. You get strip-searched before you go in, fingerprinted every day. One day I just climbed over the gate and left.It was a public school organized like a jail? In other words, it was early conditioning for what everybody assumed your future was going to be. When I finally went to jail, I already knew everybody. Everybody I went to school with was in the jail.What were you put in that school for? Fighting and acting up. I said in one of my raps, I was acting up in school because I thought it was cool, but really I was hurt. Your mom’s at work, your dad’s in the graveyard, you’re not really getting nurtured, and I guess you just resort to acting up.You have a song called “Trauma,” which talks about that, the PTSD young people in these neighborhoods are dealing with. But that’s why I love that Baldwin quote — everything about the environment tells these kids they’re nothing, right? But when they react in what’s actually a very normal way, we want to break them down. You don’t value yourself because you grow up not being valued. What type of motivation do you get if your mom is on drugs? Your self-esteem is automatically just low. Some people have the determination to shoot to the top. But, you know, that’s not normal — for just a regular kid to have the determination to do that.I always say anger is an easier emotion to deal with than pain. Yeah. That’s why I say, you come through neighborhoods and you see kids with their faces all balled up or looking angry? They’re probably really angry. His mom is probably really on drugs, and he probably really don’t have food in the house, and his dad is probably really dead. They hurt, they torn, they scarred. It’s nothing that words can really fix. “Why is this kid always angry?” Well, he’s been through something.Who’s the first black writer you ever read? I’d never be able to determine who was black and white when I was reading back then. I don’t know the first. “The New Jim Crow” — that’s a black writer?Yes. Michelle Alexander. When you were in high school, you weren’t exposed to black literature, black writers? I went to public school. The books were falling apart. They probably still got the same books from when I was in school. We didn’t get no black literature in public school.I read a lot as a child, mostly because I was grounded all the time. Then we had a black-studies course in high school, and I became obsessed with black history because it felt like, for the first time, the world made sense. You would see your community and how people lived, and they would tell you we just did not want better. But I could see how hard people worked, and they still could not get ahead. Studying history calmed me. The most I ever read was in prison. There’s nothing to do, so you turn to books. Reading made me process the system. Sometimes I thought it was just millions of black people, and Spanish — when you come to prison, it’s black and Spanish. Looking deeper, and seeing the way some of those things are broken down in “The New Jim Crow,” it made me really wonder. Because I am already a conspiracy theorist.I don’t understand how you can be black and not be a conspiracy theorist. I was doing a show on CNN, and a guy was like, “Why are you saying the system is similar to slavery?” It kind of caught me off guard, and I couldn’t really answer. But you’ve got people working for eight cents in here. You’re feeding people the [expletive] you would feed slaves. You’ve got people cuffed up, shackled from top to bottom. People locked in the basement for 23 hours a day, being beat by the officers. It’s basically the same. And one of the amendments says that when you’re under custody of the government, you can be treated like a slave.Yes, the 13th. So you were first arrested — for the original charge — at 19? My first arrest was actually going to school. In sixth or seventh grade. I was suspended, and I didn’t want to tell my mom, so I tried to hang out in the hallways. I got caught and went to jail for trespassing. My mom had to come get me.What’s the charge you’re still on probation for? Selling crack. This is to my dad’s soul: I wasn’t selling crack when they locked me up for it. When I got back, I had to get back in the street and start really selling weed to get me a lawyer, because everyone who had a public defender got crucified. My mug shot has my face swollen, both sides of my face beat up. I was charged with fracturing the cop’s hand. You know how his hand got fractured?Yeah, punching you. Yeah. He charged me for him punching my face. They said I pointed a gun at them. If somebody can sit there and tell you the story of how they didn’t point a gun at cops, nine times out of 10, it’s true. It’s not too many people who can make it out of pointing a gun at a couple cops.I remember one time, this judge said, “I don’t give people three to six months; I give people three to six years” — for something like a first-time weed charge. That always stuck with me. That’s not O.K. I mean, you can’t shoot nobody and expect to be getting chances. But if you were on probation and began smoking weed? People in the ’hood are going through real [expletive]. I barely sleep from so much trauma. Sometimes you just want to smoke and go to sleep.And you’ve got to think about it — you’ve got 18-, 19-year-old kids, sending them to a whole building full of rapists, killers. They put you in a cell with a 45-year-old man who got a life sentence, who’s a killer. This is your dad right here. He’s going to raise you. He’s going to show you how to clean the toilet, how to carry yourself. They’re not thinking about that. They’re just giving this guy three years to get taught this mentality.My mom was a probation officer. She would tell me how certain officers would wait outside the person’s house, trying to catch them. And it’s for noncriminal things, right? The average person, I think, believes that people are being violated because they’re doing criminal activity. But I’ve had family and friends incarcerated, and part of their probation would be that they couldn’t drive. In a place with no public transit, they would drive to work and get violated. You can’t associate with known felons, but that means you can’t be around your family members or go to the barbershop. You can’t associate with felons when you just came from prison, with a thousand felons in your face every day. That makes no sense. One time the judge was like, “This is lenient,” and in my head — I couldn’t say this — I was like, Who are you to even say this is lenient? If you gave me three months, that is not lenient. I’m going to lose my job, lose the lease on my house. She made it a condition that I couldn’t even rap.In prison, you were 23-and-1, right? Isolated all but one hour a day? I can’t even imagine what that’s like. Nobody can. I was just talking to 21 Savage in prison, and I was like, This is the closest you’ve ever been to God in a room like this. The last time I was on 23-and-1, my lawyer came to see me, and I was like, “Did I go crazy and just don’t know I went crazy?” I started writing everything I was feeling, but when I went back and looked at it, I was spelling everything wrong, things I know how to spell. I kept blacking out in the middle of the day — not passing out, but like falling asleep. I was counting the birds on the wire: This bird’s gonna fly off in 10, 9, 8, 7. The bird don’t fly off, start over. Twenty-three and a half hours a day. Come out to take a shower, back to your cell. And I wasn’t in there for punishment — they had me on a mental block because I’m a celebrity, and they didn’t have anywhere to put me. Every time I got out, I’m like, yeah, I’m not the same no more.You’ve become the face of criminal-justice problems. When did you realize that you had a platform, and that you should use it to advocate for more than yourself? When I saw the support people gave me. Everybody was saying “Free Meek,” but it was really like saying “Free everybody who goes through these conditions.” It surprised me, because I’ve been in and out of prison for these types of things for the past 11 years, and people were just like: “Aw, he’s stupid. He keeps going to jail.” I am not stupid. It’s just normal mistakes. I caught one case at the age of 19. I am 31. I have never been back to prison for a crime.You’re working with some powerful people in the Reform Alliance. Jay-Z, Michael Rubin, Robert Kraft, Clara Wu Tsai. Basically all billionaires except me. Robert Kraft saw me in prison, and he was like, How are you still smiling? He was like, If that was me, I would be depressed, mad, angry.You’re not? You can’t sleep. Yeah, but that comes from my environment. Coming from seeing violence, people robbed, people murdered, you heard gunshots every night — couldn’t sleep.So how do you deal with the trauma? I just override it. I don’t know. Rapping is one of my therapies. I’ve never been a dweller to sit back and be sad about something. The saddest thing I can think about is Lil Snupe, an artist I had signed, got killed at 18 by a grown man. That bothered me a lot for two years, but I suppressed it and never really addressed it. Then one day, I started realizing that had damaged me, and I thought about it a lot.Do you actually think Reform Alliance can change the system? I think it’s a possibility we can make a change. In Pennsylvania, they’re talking about changing the laws of probation already, to where the cap is five years. That will be a big win for a lot of kids who will enter the system and probably would have gotten 10 to 20.After everything, you’re still hopeful. Yeah. Hell, yeah. I got a mean team with me. I don’t think none of us lose in anything we do.Nikole Hannah-Jones is a staff writer for the magazine.Devin Yalkin is a photographer from New York who has covered a range of subjects for the magazine, including dirt-track racing, Trump rallies and basketball on Montana’s Flathead Indian Reservation.This interview has been condensed and edited.How dozens of people own a slice of a hit.By JONAH WEINERHow many people does it take to write a No. 1 hit? In the case of Travis Scott’s smash “Sicko Mode,” which came out Aug. 3, 2018, and has been on Billboard’s Hot 100 chart every week since, 30 different songwriters are credited. That’s a preposterously high number that speaks, in part, to the shift in top-tier rap toward a collaboration-heavy, auteurist mode of creation. It also speaks to the song’s unorthodox structure. “Sicko Mode,” which Scott performed at the Super Bowl halftime show, switches between three different beats created by six different producers, with additional work, it turns out, from a Switzerland-based washing-machine salesman. In addition to three guest vocalists — one of whom is the Canadian superstar Drake, one of whom utters only three words and one of whom has been dead for 13 years — it includes two vocals sampled from landmark rap songs that are themselves dense with further samples from ’70s-era funk bands and, for good measure, a handful of other landmark rap songs. The DNA of “Sicko Mode,” that is, carries with it strands of ancient genetic material, and even if much of it is audible nowhere in the song itself, those strands show up in the credits. Here’s where each one leads.00:00 — 01:001. The woozy organ riff in the song’s first section was created by the producer and classically trained pianist Rogét Chahayed, whose breakthrough track was D.R.A.M.’s 2016 single “Broccoli.” The bass line and percussion come courtesy of Chauncey Hollis, better known as Hit-Boy, whose most famous co-production is Jay-Z and Kanye West’s “Niggas in Paris.”00:28 — 01:002. Aubrey Graham, a.k.a. Drake, is the first voice we hear, though his verse will be abruptly cut off. Chahayed has explained that Drake and Travis Scott recorded a complete song over his and Hit-Boy’s beat, but in this Frankenstein version, we hear only about a minute of it.01:00 — 02:483. Travis Scott, born Jacques Webster, doesn’t appear on his own song until a minute in, when the music changes entirely — one of the track’s many idiosyncrasies. Scott, asked if he could hear the song’s chart-topping potential before its release, says: “Yeah, but other people weren’t hearing it. They’re looking at me like I’m crazy. I’m like, ‘O.K. Just wait till it drops.’”01:00 — 02:454. In 2015, the Swiss producer Ozan Yildirim, a.k.a. Oz, was given an email address that supposedly belonged to Travis Scott. He emailed beats for “a year and a half,” he says, with no reply. Finally, a response arrived: “You have dope [expletive]. Keep sending.” On Jan. 11, 2018, Oz sent what would become the second section of “Sicko Mode.”4A. Oz got help with a synthesizer sound from his friend Mirsad Dervic, a.k.a. M-Dee, an appliance salesman who makes music on his days off.4B. Oz also used a sound from a pack of samples created by the German producing duo Tim and Kevin Gomringer, a.k.a. Cubeatz.01:155. Scott raps three words — “Gimme the Loot” — and as a result, 14 different people earn credits. Scott is quoting 1994’s “Gimme the Loot” by the Notorious B.I.G. and includes a sample from it, so Biggie (Christopher Wallace) and the producer Easy Mo Bee (Osten Harvey) get credit. Things telescope from there …5A. “Gimme the Loot” samples a vocal from Gang Starr’s “Just to Get a Rep,” which means that song’s authors, Guru (Keith Elam) and DJ Premier (Christopher Martin), are credited.5B. “Gimme the Loot” also samples Sticky Fingaz’s verse on Onyx’s rap classic “Throw Ya Gunz,” so even though Fingaz (Kirk Jones) plays no part on “Sicko Mode,” he’s credited, along with his Onyx partners Chyskillz (Chylow Parker), Sonny Seeza (Tyrone Taylor) and Fredro Starr (Fred Scruggs).5C. “Gimme the Loot” samples another vocal, from A Tribe Called Quest’s “Scenario (Remix)” — a line from the late Troy Anthony Hall, a.k.a. Kid Hood. Strangely, Hall isn’t a credited writer on Biggie’s song or Scott’s, though Tribe’s Q-Tip (Kamaal Fareed), Phife Dawg (Malik Taylor) and Ali Shaheed Jones-Muhammad are, along with the collaborators Busta Rhymes (Trevor Smith), Bryan Higgins and James Jackson.01:366. Swae Lee, born Khalif Brown and half of the pop-rap duo Rae Sremmurd, turns a fragmentary sung phrase — “Someone said” — into one of “Sicko Mode”’s unlikeliest hooks.01:407. In one of Scott’s many tributes to Houston screw music — a narcotic local subgenre named after the late DJ Screw — Scott includes two pitched-down a cappella bars from a Screw compatriot, John Edward Hawkins, a.k.a. Big Hawk, who was killed in 2006.02:178. Scott shouts out the Miami rap icon Uncle Luke — born Luther Campbell, notorious for his work in 2 Live Crew — and drops in a sample from his 1992 song “I Wanna Rock.”8A. “I Wanna Rock” samples K.C. and the Sunshine Band’s “That’s the Way (I Like It),” and so that group’s Harry Wayne Casey and Richard Finch get credits, despite appearing nowhere on “Sicko Mode.”02:48 — 02:569. The beat grinds to a halt with a series of distorted kick drums before moving to its final section. This transition contains production from the Houston multi-instrumentalist Mike Dean, an executive producer on “Astroworld.”02:56 — 05:1210. Tay Keith, born BryTavious Chambers, just graduated from college in Tennessee. He was producing for local M.C.s when Drake got in touch via Instagram to discuss collaborating. He’s responsible for the final section, including a drum pattern much like the one he built for Drake’s “Nonstop.”XXX11. Scott has known the Chicago rapper CyHi the Prynce, born Cydel Young, since Scott’s early days with Kanye West’s G.O.O.D. Music crew, of which Young is a member. Young helped Scott in crafting lyrics.Jonah Weiner is a contributing writer for the magazine. His last feature for the magazine was about the director Adam McKay.Source photographs: Oz and Cubeatz: Alexandros Tiakas/Views of Views Media. Big Hawk: Shawn Brauch/Pen & Pixel Graphics, from the University of Houston Libraries. Tay Keith: Zach Boisjoly. Mirsad Dervic by Ozan Yildirim. All other source photographs: Getty Images.The real star of ‘a star is born’ is a song that few can agree on. is it any good? yes. Yes it is.By WESLEY MORRISBradley Cooper’s “A Star Is Born” is a movie about an unknown singer named Ally, who’s afraid to perform her own songs until a famous musician takes one of her ballads, rearranges it, then drags her onstage to sing it with him for a stadium full of people who have no idea who she is. That song — “Shallow” — won an Oscar last month. It’s a soaring, Airbus of a ballad that’s satisfying to sing whether you’re Kelly Clarkson or pitchy old me.But “Shallow” isn’t the number that epitomizes the movie. That comes past the halfway point, and your response to it sums up how far under Cooper’s spell you’ve fallen. I was under pretty deep. Ally’s on the verge of superstardom, but nearly all of the singing we’ve seen her do has been with Cooper’s character, Jackson Maine — this impossible fusion of grunge, roots country, pills, booze, pain, encroaching deafness and the Whole Damn American Truth.We can sense that Jackson’s artistic attraction to Ally arises not just from her industrial-strength voice but from her way with an abstractly honest lyric and her knack for melody. She, too, seems “authentic” and virtuous (she scribbles down ideas in a notebook; she’s struggled and suffered to “make it”). His aversion to the artifice of showbiz would seem to be hers: It’s all about the craft for us, baby. The spell being cast is a matter of taste and prerogative, essentially that Ally is made from Jackson’s rib of purity.I, at least, assumed that Ally would turn into somebody like Brandi Carlile, a songwriter whose singing regularly reaches the stratosphere but who we can tell is grounded and real because she holds a guitar the way, for some of us, a lawyer holds a degree from Yale — and because ... she ... isn’t ... a dancer. Ally, on the other hand, does dance (perhaps because it’s what her craft-neutral wisp of a manager wants). And the first time we see America seeing her dance is after she’s introduced as the musical guest on “Saturday Night Live.” The song — “Why Did You Do That?” — opens with the plinky simulations of a steel drum or a music box, and then the question “Why?” “Why do you look so good in those jeans?” she sings, as if she were all of Destiny’s Children. “Why’d you come around me with an ass like that?” Ally’s onstage with new, orange hair. (Thanks, craft-neutral manager!) She’s wearing spangling athleisure and a pink hooded jacket made of a fabric I can describe only as “gift bag.” She’s with a male dancer who’s dressed complementarily in blue, and when she says, “ass like that,” he grinds himself into her.[Read Rachel Syme’s profile of Lady Gaga.]It’s here that I should say that I love this song. But according to the movie’s competing authenticities (Jackson’s idea of it versus her manager’s; rock versus pop), love is a luxury. Gaga wrote “Why Did You Do That?” with, among other people, Diane Warren, a master of lugubrious balladry, a cheese whiz. But these women are grilling that cheese. Gaga’s enthusiasm for repetition in a chorus slips an earworm on the hook. Why did you do that — do that, do that, do that, do that — to ME? Next comes a sugary helping of “Hoooh-oooh-oooh,” while a sloppy, synthy bass line slithers around it all. This song is sung with such umbrage and so much alarm that you don’t know whether to sing along or call Gloria Allred.But I watched Ally perform it with my hand to my mouth. I might have said aloud: “Oh, Ally. Jackson’s going to hate this.” And no sooner had I said it than the movie cut to Jackson watching with a face of stone. This song is confection and sex and feel-copping. It’s showbiz. Basically, it’s everything Jackson would seem to hate about whatever music is right now.When the movie cuts to Jackson’s face, the Ike Turner of “What’s Love Got to Do With It” crossed my mind. And a few scenes later, a version of Ike comes over him while Ally is trying to have herself a “Pretty Woman” bath and Jackson enters. She’s sudsy. He’s soused. “Why you come around me with an ass like that,” he says in disgust. “Maybe I [expletive] failed you,” he goes on. “You’re embarrassing,” he slurs. “You’re just [expletive] ugly,” he slurs some more. Jackson doesn’t want to see “Why Did You Do That?” as the hit of an ingénue, something anonymous-seeming that a new pop star tries before a truer identity bubbles up: Pink doing “Most Girls,” Katy Perry and “I Kissed a Girl,” Rihanna’s “Pon De Replay,” Gaga’s “Just Dance,” whatever the perma-ingénue Ariana Grande’s currently up to.Last fall, this one song, from this megahit movie, provoked perplexed essays and inspired The Times’s Kyle Buchanan to track down Warren and ask, Is it supposed to be bad? Jackson thinks so. As much as I wanted to save this sexy, damaged, doomed man, on this, we disagree. “Maybe it’s time to let the old ways die,” goes his most mournful lyric. But maybe it’s also time to admit nothing’s wrong with an ass like that.Wesley Morris is a staff writer for the magazine, a critic at large for The New York Times and co-host of the podcast “Still Processing.”The origins and meaning of a meaningless viral hit.By JODY ROSENThe children’s song “Baby Shark” is a global smash, a hit that has captivated millions, conquering charts from Asia to Australia to the United States, where, this January, it reached No. 32 on the Billboard Hot 100. It’s also a folk song, with origins as obscure as “The Dowie Dens o’ Yarrow” or any of those other ancient airs whose authorship long ago vanished in the mists. “Baby Shark” is thought to have been born in American summer camps, perhaps several decades ago. It is a staple of singalongs, the sort of song that gets belted out by groups gathered at marshmallow roasts and swimming pools. One theory holds that the song was born in the summer of 1975, when Steven Spielberg’s “Jaws” was in theaters and great white sharks were gliding through the murky waters of collective consciousness, to the strains of John Williams’s brooding score.The precise provenance of “Baby Shark” may never be pinned down. Its recent history is clearer. In November 2015, Pinkfong, a South Korean educational brand, released a hopped-up rendition with an accompanying animated video. The following June, Pinkfong put out a second video, “Baby Shark Dance,” featuring two cute kids performing goofy dance moves. It was this clip that inspired the hashtag #BabySharkChallenge, instigating a viral craze that has racked up more than two billion YouTube views and spawned unnumbered spinoffs starring everyone from Indonesian farmworkers to Filipino marines to Cardi B to, undoubtedly, your friends, your family, your baby trussed in a shark costume. In the United States, the #BabySharkChallenge has received an extra viral boost, cross-pollinating with a dance craze linked to Drake’s anthem “In My Feelings,” in which people exit moving motor vehicles to dance and lip-sync as the car putters alongside.In other words, “Baby Shark” has completed two full transmigrations between folk and pop. It’s a folk song that became a pop song that filtered into social media to become a folk song again — a grass-roots phenomenon that propelled the pop recording to improbable heights of ubiquity. It exemplifies several features of 21st-century culture: the porous boundaries between the pop industrial complex and the amateur homespun; a globalized circulation of songs based as much on memes as on music; the popularity of unchallenging dance “challenges”; the hegemony of Drake.“Baby Shark” also exemplifies the timeless appeal of really stupid songs. Musically, “Baby Shark” is efficient, with a foursquare beat driving an unvarying melody that returns repeatedly to the wordless chorus “Doo doo doo doo doo doo.” This refrain repeats fully 27 times — a lot, in a song that runs 1 minute 36 seconds. The first minute is devoted to introducing the dramatis personae: “Baby Shark/Doo doo doo doo doo doo ... Mommy Shark/Doo doo doo doo doo doo,” etc. The narrative, such as it is, is compressed into the song’s final third. The shark family goes hunting, and its prey elude capture: “Safe at last/Doo doo doo doo doo doo.”Even the most rabid “Baby Shark” fan will concede that it is infantile. Which is not to say that it’s a children’s song. In fact, it’s an adult song masquerading as a kids’ song. “Baby Shark” has been sanitized: Traditional versions sung by campers are mischievous and macabre, telling tales of sharks attacking swimmers who lose limbs and, usually, lives. (“Call 911/Doo doo doo ... It’s too late/Doo doo doo.”) In one variation, a “surfer dude” is mauled, dies and is reincarnated as a baby shark: an artful cycle of gore, death, rebirth and more gore.“Baby Shark,” by contrast, seems engineered to please the parents. It’s a garishly wholesome affirmation of the nuclear family and ends happily; its dance can be mastered by the most rhythm-impaired. Is it a stretch to suggest that “Baby Shark” is music for grown-ups who are, as it were, in their feelings, stressed by the turmoil and dislocations of 21st-century life? Compare “Baby Shark” with music popular with millennials: relentlessly dour rap and hip-hop-inflected pop, full of menace and foreboding, which face the bummer of 2019 head-on. “Baby Shark” offers an antidote, an escape: a song that delivers us from danger — safe at last! — leaving nary a trace of blood in the water.Jody Rosen is a contributing writer for the magazine and the author of a forthcoming book about bicycles.Beyoncé And Jay-Z know whose work has long been left out of the canon, and they won’t let it happen to theirs.By JENNA WORTHAMLast year, on one of the first stops of Beyoncé and Jay-Z’s “On the Run II” tour, the lights of London Stadium dimmed, and the video for “Apeshit” began playing on enormous screens. The video opens with the Carters dressed in gorgeous suits (hers a Peter Pilotto in pink and red; his, sea-foam green Dries Van Noten) standing — alone — in front of the Mona Lisa at the Louvre. “Have you ever seen a crowd going apeshit?” the song asks, and the answer lay in the reaction of the British concertgoers, who screamed, cried and danced.Whose history belongs in our museums? The video and song meditate on this question. The history of black people has too often been presented as little more than a curiosity. The 1889 world’s fair in Paris, for example, included a “human zoo” of indigenous people taken from French colonies and placed in “natural” habitats for onlookers. During the 16th century, Africans were exhibited in the Vatican, and in 1906 a young Congolese man called Ota Benga was forcibly kept at the Bronx Zoo. Even now, landmark museums like the Louvre tend to exhibit artwork that depicts Africans and their descendants as household servants and domestic workers. The Carters know this painful past, and in “Apeshit” they confront it.Lyrics like “We livin’ lavish, lavish/I got expensive fabrics/I got expensive habits” could give the impression that the song is merely reveling in the luxuries that extreme wealth can buy. One great complexity regarding the couple is their overt embrace of capitalism. Are they disrupting the status quo or reinforcing it? But just beneath all that spending seethes an abject rage. “I said no to the Super Bowl, you need me, I don’t need you,” Jay-Z raps. “Every night we in the end zone, tell the N.F.L. we in stadiums too.” The Carters are Colin Kaepernick-level fed up with institutions that barely recognize them, whether it be the Grammys, which nominated Jay-Z eight times last year but gave him zero wins, or Coachella, which featured Beyoncé as its first black female headliner only last year. “Gimme my check, put some respect on my check. Or pay me in equity, pay me in equity” is about money, yes, but it’s also a cry to be acknowledged for what they’ve earned. Their best revenge is their paper, but it’s also their own music-streaming service (Tidal) and a clothing line (Ivy Park).[Get to know the author of this article, Jenna Wortham, in a new Behind the Byline interview.]The Carters have collaborated for almost two decades on songs that rotate around their love of money (“’03 Bonnie & Clyde”) and of infatuation (“Crazy in Love”). But “Apeshit” represents a new era for their economic philosophies and value systems. Wealth isn’t just for flashy living; it’s about creating an empire for themselves and their offspring. Love is hard, unflattering work that sometimes requires setting aside ego and reputation. When Beyoncé sings of plans to get her girls and “put ’em all on a spaceship,” you feel that it’s not lyrically convenient but that she really means it. What would a world created entirely by and for black people look like?Even as Beyoncé and Jay-Z have an estimated net worth of more than a billion dollars between them, they have managed to remain largely unscathed by a cultural tide that disdains the obscenity of late-stage capitalism. Perhaps that’s because they seem to be trying to undo a larger project of disinheritance. The video continues its tour of the Louvre, showing the Carters and dancers posing among some of the world’s most famous art. They are asserting that they belong. “All of my people, I free ’em all,” Beyoncé sings. It’s a boast, but it’s also their mission.Jenna Wortham is a staff writer for the magazine and co-host of the podcast “Still Processing.”The same affected adolescent pain, updated for modern times.By JAIME LAUREN KEILESIf you grew up listening to pop punk, as I did, then it’s easy to feel as though the mid-to-late aughts were lost to a fold in adolescent space-time. Are we even sure that the genre ever happened? Pop punk married punk power chords with the singable hook of a radio hit. The aesthetic was embarrassing, even in its time — circuses, graveyards, men in eyeliner. Want to fantasize about murdering your ex? For a brief, fun lapse in those dubious years, such thoughts were best expressed in a high, clear whine, interspersed with bouts of indiscriminate screaming. Today we might call pop punk “problematic” (or maybe we’d call it musical theater). To me, at 14, it was more than visceral, a soundtrack for a time of hormonal disarray.Flash-forward nearly 15 years to the present, and somehow, improbably, pop punk is back in the form of the rap song “Lucid Dreams” by Juice WRLD. The track first appeared on the streaming platform SoundCloud and rose through the ranks of the Billboard Hot 100 on the wings of brooding, sung-rapped pain: “I still see your shadows in my room/can’t take back the love that I gave you/it’s to the point where I love and I hate you.” “Lucid Dreams” is pop punk recapitulated — the same themes, the same whine, the same singable hook, with the power chords swapped out for insular drums and the plaintive guitar of Sting’s “Shape of My Heart.” It echoes the pangs of a Fall Out Boy track, throbbing with urgent teenage despair.Juice WRLD is 20, from the suburbs of Chicago. He describes his own music as “a therapy session” and cites influences like Fall Out Boy, Bullet for My Valentine, Senses Fail and Panic! at the Disco. Like most rappers of this latest generation, these influences evolved in a post-streaming world, where albums existed as free-floating tracks, somewhat detached from imposed genre labels.Hit pop songs that exploit algorithms are sometimes described as “Spotifycore” or “streambait.” If “Lucid Dreams” was not produced to game the numbers, then at least this new system of musical incentives might help explain its unlikely rise. Rap music turns on its habit-forming beats, and pop punk thrives on earwormish hooks. Accounting for the keen melodrama of both genres, it makes perfect sense that a hybridized form would triumph in this new streaming ecosystem.Juice WRLD is not the first or only artist to work in the emo-rap subgenre. The rapper LiL Peep, who died from an overdose of fentanyl and Xanax in 2017, was extolled as “the future of emo.” The same might be said of XXXTentacion, a rapper who made violent, confessional music before he was fatally shot last June. The troubles of this music scene have been well covered; in brief, they reflect the real perils of our time — gun violence, a crisis of masculinity, dual drug and mental-health epidemics. If the pop-punk songs of decades past were grandiose enough to be written off as camp, then the latest wave of emo-rap seems somehow right-sized for the terrors of our moment. With this in mind, “Lucid Dreams” sounds less catchy, or maybe it just sounds less catchy to adults.Jamie Lauren Keiles is a writer in Queens working on a novel about smoking.Our freshest pop and country superstar is not the usual kind of outlaw.By LIZZY GOODMANA couple of weeks before she would step onstage to accept the Grammy for Album of the Year, Kacey Musgraves was under the covers in the bedroom at the back of her tour bus, pondering the nature of the universe. She had a little unexpected time on her hands. A show in Chicago had been canceled, thanks to the polar freeze that had descended over the Midwest, leaving her stuck in the middle of a vast tundra with a buildup of tour adrenaline and nowhere to put it. She watched some “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel,” read a little “The Catcher in the Rye” and then lost herself down her favorite YouTube rabbit hole, a video genre in which someone mashes up tweedy old-school physics lectures with wonky electro beats. “It’s like if Daft Punk went totally science,” she says, “and I’m here for that.”Later, she would stand in a diaphanous scarlet Valentino dress at the Grammys, giving a speech that could, given her tone and reputation, be read as subtly anti-authoritarian. “Life is pretty tumultuous right now for all of us,” she told the crowd. “I feel like, because of that, art is really thriving.” Musgraves is well known for her support of the L.G.B.T. community, her unabashed love of weed and her ability to turn a cutting phrase in her perfect Texas twang — particularly when she’s writing about the shackles of social convention. She started writing her winning album, “Golden Hour,” early in 2016, when Donald Trump was still assigning stinging nicknames to his Republican primary opponents, and began recording it just after Trump’s inauguration. She has tweeted in support of the Women’s March and in disdain of Eric Trump’s family-branded Christmas ornaments. She speaks with pride about the stack of detention slips her mother still keeps from her daughter’s time in the Mineola, Tex., school system: “I was always getting in trouble for, like, insubordination.” Add all that to the nose piercing that, as she famously sings on the rapturous single “Slow Burn,” made her grandmother cry, and you might expect her album to be a bit of a call to arms, a middle finger to a broken world.Not so much. “I just got tripped out one day,” she says, musing on her inspiration for the album. “Thinking, Whoa, wait, we live in this world that seems so mundane, but at the same time that I’m sitting here, there’s things that are glowing in the ocean and eating each other — and there’s also northern lights and shooting stars and plants that grow and literally heal people.” She paused for breath. “And it’s all happening around us, you know?” Falling for the man who is now her husband — the singer and songwriter Ruston Kelly — was another part of the album’s genesis. “It’s sort of a love song to him,” she says, “but also to nature, the human race, Earth and why we’re here. We don’t know, and I kind of love it.”In other words, this wry firebrand’s big statement on the state of the world — at a time when so many of the issues she has become famous writing about, like feminism and gay rights, are making daily headlines — is a metaphysical country-pop record more inspired by Carl Sagan than Willie Nelson. And just so we’re clear, Musgraves was on acid only part of the time. “It’s not like I was tripping my face off every day,” she clarifies. (After she told reporters that psychedelics influenced a couple of songs, including “Slow Burn,” it was all anyone wanted to talk about.) “It has only been a couple times. And very responsibly! Enough to be able to get outside of yourself and see a different perspective or point of view.”What makes Musgraves such a resonant figure right now, in fact, is the way her response to a dark, anxious moment in human history is to move willfully closer to lightness, to stillness, toward the possibility of a world that comes in more colors than red or blue. When she talks about art thriving in this climate, she means it — just not in the same sense as, say, angry punks railing against the Reagan administration. What she means is that right now, the best rebellion involves turning off the hate and making space for hope. Or, as she puts it: “The [expletive] storm won’t last forever, and I want to make music that does.”[Watch Kacey Musgraves turn country music psychadelic.]I caught up with Musgraves in Wisconsin, on the tail end of January’s alarming deep freeze, which had temperatures in the upper Midwest dropping as low as minus 40. (I missed her in Chicago, where everyone was trapped inside, the streets vacant apart from the odd extreme-weather junkie taking photographs of ice floes.) Far from Valentino, she was, for the moment, in sweaty Victoria’s Secret workout tights and a fluorescent-green beanie, sitting straddle-style on the floor of the bar at a Madison venue called the Sylvee, having just finished a workout via Skype with Erin Oprea, a trainer to many of Nashville’s stars.“O.K., so this is the one I put on my story yesterday,” she said, finding a clip she had posted to Instagram and showing me her phone. It was something called Symphony of Science’s “Quantum World,” a favorite among those space-disco physics videos. “Featuring Neil DeGrasse Tyson,” she chuckled, reading from the chyron at the bottom of a related clip. I had indeed seen her Instagramming this kind of mysterious, late-night Discovery Channel-type stuff — the sort of thing teenagers once saw at the IMAX theater on a field trip after getting stoned. How did she get into it? “Oh, who knows, it was years ago,” she replied, then sang happily along to a remix that showed Morgan Freeman superimposed on a colorful tunnel of celestial light. One of the scientists’ 1970s professorial look, she pointed out, was “literally like what the band wears” in her stage show.When Musgraves was 18 and a contestant on the reality show “Nashville Star” — she placed seventh — she had to fill out a getting-to-know-the-contenders C.V. Under the category of “dream vacation,” she listed “staying in a huge log cabin in the mountains, riding horses, hunting and four-wheeling with my friends.” The “craziest” thing she’d ever done? “Hunting for Bigfoot deep in the woods of East Texas. ... We didn’t get him.” That version of Musgraves — the one who cited Jack in the Box egg rolls and beer as her favorite foods — still appears at every show, even when she’s dressed like Bianca Jagger heading to Studio 54. She’s the one leading the ritual preshow group shot of tequila, taken from tiny cactus-shaped glasses she and her band have long been toting from show to show. And she’s the one hanging with me on the floor of a bar in Wisconsin, looking at videos by a user with the handle “melodysheep.”And yet even in her early years, when Musgraves looked more the part of your average Nashville aspirant, in cowboy boots and blond highlights, there was always a kind of poise, an innate regality that set her apart. This, perhaps, is the other side of her East Texas grit — the one that manifests less as yee-haw joy and more as D.I.Y. conviction. “When it comes to art, I will not bend,” she says. “I won’t.”Musgraves grew up in Golden, Tex., a town so small it doesn’t even have an elementary school. “A few hundred people,” she guesses, is the total population. It’s about 90 minutes from Dallas, and about six or seven miles outside Mineola, where Musgraves and her sister, Kelly Christine Sutton — a photographer, who shot the “Golden Hour” cover — went to school, and where their parents had a small printing shop. “Even at a young age,” Sutton says, “I always knew my sister would be known for her music. And not really on anyone else’s timeline. She would make it happen on her own terms.” It’s their parents’ model of small-town independence, Musgraves figures, that gave her a tend-your-own-garden will. “A large part of who I am comes from the fact that I never saw my parents have bosses,” she says. “They’ve never answered to anyone but themselves. And not in a baller way — like very small-business, check-to-check kind of a thing. But they made all their own decisions.”Growing up, she had a Spice Girls poster in her room — Ginger, with her wild tattoo, made a strong impression — and listened to emo rock bands like the Used and Dashboard Confessional. But that wasn’t the sort of music she played. “I was part of this kids’ group called the Buckaroos that would meet every month in the Fort Worth Stockyards and would dress up in cowboy clothing and stroll the stockyards and learn instruments,” she recalls. “There were mentors there who kind of encourage kids to learn this old stuff.” By 9, she was writing her own songs and playing guitar; by 12, she was singing Western swing and yodeling at festivals on the weekends. Bookings and press kits were handled by her grandmother — the same one who later cried when Musgraves pierced her nose, and who referred to “It Is What It Is,” the singer’s melancholic ode to casual sex, as “the slut song.” “She’s a hoot,” Musgraves says. “She was wheeling and dealing.”There was, of course, the requisite period in which a teenage Musgraves turned her back on the whole cowgirl thing. “I was like, Dude, none of my friends think this is cool. If they saw me I’d be superembarrassed. I’m yodeling, you know what I mean?” She rebelled — for a second. “I chopped off all my hair and was like: Suck on that! Now I can’t wear a cowboy hat, Mom!” (“You would not believe how upset my family was,” Sutton remembers.) But this rebellion turned out to be short-lived. By the time Musgraves moved full time to Nashville, at 19, she had realized “nobody really in the country world was embracing the hard-core roots of the genre.” But she had come to worship John Prine and Loretta Lynn — big-hearted, sharp-tongued, storytelling pillars of country’s outlaw roots who had risen up in the ’70s by staging their own insurgency against the bubble-gumming-up of the genre. “I randomly already had this superknowledge about all the old songs that came before me, and that style, the Western fashion,” Musgraves says. “I was like: I’m going to bring it back. I want to mix that in with something modern.” Prine himself is now one of her many admirers; he compares her to “a goofy Cinderella.” “She has a certain honesty to her voice,” he says. “She’s breaking down barriers.”There’s a famous tale about Kacey Musgraves’s first big showcase performance for the Country Radio Seminar. This is a big-deal event in the business; its attendees are queen-makers in an industry in which success is still determined by access to radio airwaves. The story of her 2013 debut there smacks of a plotline on “Nashville” — appropriate, given that she co-wrote “Undermine,” one of the hits to emerge from the juggernaut TV series. You can easily picture the kind of episode Musgraves’s performance might have inspired. A young woman takes the stage at the legendary Ryman Auditorium, the so-called Mother Church of country, about to play the song that could make or break her career. We learn that she’s being hyped — thanks to her preternatural songwriting skills, good looks and the already-feverish crossover response to her first single, “Merry Go Round” — as the Veronica to Taylor Swift’s Betty: a sassier but potentially just as marketable product. As is the industry’s way, the corporate powers would like this rising phenom to be herself, but only within reason. They’d prefer she refrain from playing what will become her third single — the one with the lines about smoking joints and kissing girls — until after she can already be heard in every Walgreens in America. But the woman steps up to the microphone, leans into it a little and speaks: “I’m kind of a big believer in people doing whatever the hell they want to do, because I feel like society is probably going to have an opinion either way.” Then she starts strumming “Follow Your Arrow.” As she delivers its opening line — “If you save yourself for marriage, you’re a bore/If you don’t save yourself for marriage you’re a horr-” — the crowd gasps. Then she finishes — “-ible person” — and the audience laughs. A star is born.It’s easy to wonder where Musgraves got the nerve. It’s one thing to admire your parents’ entrepreneurial spirit, and another to hold your own amid the chaos and pressure of the starmaking machine. For Musgraves, performing alongside Dolly Parton at the Grammys, winning Album of the Year, presenting an award at the Oscars — all of this is unequivocally her dream. But it’s also something she believes she could live without, and remembering this has become a kind of daily meditation, especially as the scope of her fame has increased. “I don’t get high off my own supply, you know?” she says, mentioning, by way of inspiration, Willie Nelson’s ability to welcome “Republicans, rappers, presidents, my grandpa, your grandpa, our hipster friends, me” without treating anyone as superior to anyone else. “You can be proud of yourself and excited for what you’re doing, and you could even really have a high level of confidence, without being a D-bag.”In Musgraves’s mind, she made it the minute she signed her first songwriting deal, back in 2009, penning tunes that would be sold around Nashville to other performers. That was the day she realized she would never again have to work a job in which she dressed up as Disney characters for children’s birthday parties, one of many day gigs she had endured. “For the next few years,” she says, “I was like: Really? Wait, I can use my brain, sit on my ass and make a living?” When her current label first made her an offer to record as an artist, Musgraves turned it down; she was having a perfectly good time as a writer. She also knew she didn’t have real access to her own voice yet. “Those songs were fine for other artists,” she says. “Maybe they could be popular on the radio or something, but they’re not very me.”By the time Musgraves eventually located her particular voice, it was already honed to a sharp edge. Her first hit, “Merry Go Round,” from 2012, is packed with the kind of mordant wordplay she’d be known for, conjuring a “same trailer, different park” world where people marry out of boredom and settle “just like dust” into small-town lives: “Mama’s hooked on Mary Kay, brother’s hooked on Mary Jane, Daddy’s hooked on Mary two doors down.” But after two albums and multiple world tours, Musgraves felt worn out by her own verbal cleverness. “Everyone hopefully knows I can flip a phrase by now, and I like that,” she says. “But I don’t want bumper-sticker songs.” It also concerned Musgraves that the refreshing directness with which she had addressed social issues might start to feel heavy-handed, even ideologically gimmicky. She is, as she puts it diplomatically, “noticing things about the world that I’m not happy with.” But when she started working on “Golden Hour,” it no longer felt right to address them directly. “Everyone that’s listened to any of my music knows exactly how I feel,” she says. “This record does kind of nod to some of the social and political things that are going on, but it’s just doing it in a different way. It’s not as linear.”Back on her bus, in Wisconsin, after playing to a couple thousand freezing fans who arrived lit and ready to party, Musgraves decompressed again. Gone was the collection of products the singer uses to transform herself from the kind of girl her sister remembers Musgraves sometimes presented as in high school — “Converse, Dickies and black eyeliner” — to the flamboyantly feminine star who shares the stage with “RuPaul’s Drag Race” contestants. (“I have thought, Am I just doing this because it’s expected, or do I actually enjoy it?” Musgraves said to me earlier, while spraying her face with a mist of foundation. “And it’s like: No! I enjoy it!”) Now she was in slippers and a kind of housecoat, which I mentioned made her look approximately like my grandmother. “Let’s just say I also have a towel warmer,” she replied. She puttered around her kitchen, making mugs of ginger tea. Then she pointed out where the bus’s temperature controls were, and the cabinet where she keeps the melatonin gummies, and said good night.Tucked away with her tasteful crystal collection in the earth-toned bedroom in the back of the bus — the first she has ever had, after touring for years alongside “15 other people” — there were any number of things might have turned her attention to. She could have looked at specs for the adult coloring book she’s designing with her mother, or maybe FaceTimed with her husband, Ruston Kelly, also on tour somewhere in the frozen Midwest. She might have scrolled through the looks her stylist had just sent through for the Grammys; she was still searching for something just right to match Dolly Parton. Or there was Musgrave’s common insomnia treatment, shopping on eBay: “I get down a little rabbit hole,” she told me, “ordering old toys that they don’t make anymore. Like dolls from the ’80s or ’90s. If I ever have a girl, it could be cute to give her P.J. Sparkles, or Makeup Beauty, or whatever, you know?” They would all be shipped to Nashville, where they’d be waiting for her when she got home — whenever that was.“I mean, my 2020 is planned out,” she told me earlier. “I’m going to be putting another record out. I haven’t made that yet, so I need to write that and make that. Lots to do.” It is imposing, you’d guess, to have an album scheduled for release that you haven’t begun to record. “It’s scary,” she allowed. “You worry that the muse is not going to visit you again.” She reached for her lip gloss. “There’s no banking on it. So it’s odd that there’s an entire industry banking on it.” She’s not worried, though. Her latest idea showed up a few weeks ago — a low-key, “kind of like Bill Withers meets Sade” track she’s calling, for the moment, “Good Wife.” She likes its ease, she says: “It’s not trying too hard.”Lizzy Goodman is a journalist and the author of “Meet Me in the Bathroom,” an oral history of music in New York City from 2001 to 2011.Devin Yalkin is a photographer from New York.Post Malone, Spider-Man and the unexpected powers of adolescent awkwardness.By SAM ANDERSONLike most ancient people in their declining years, I keep up with today’s hit music entirely through my teenage daughter. She carries her Bluetooth speaker from room to room with the tender devotion of a mother cat ferrying kittens across a flooded stream. Thanks to her, we scramble eggs and make toast and fold laundry in an ambient cloud of Chance the Rapper, Drake, Nicki Minaj, Nicki Minaj featuring Drake, Drake featuring Nicki Minaj, Lorde, Rihanna, “country” Taylor Swift and “dubstep” Taylor Swift.Over the last year, an increasingly dominant voice in this mix has been Post Malone, a 23-year-old sort-of-rapper from suburban Dallas. “Posty,” as my daughter and other fans call him, first went viral on SoundCloud in 2015. By 2018, he trailed only the omnipotent Drake on Spotify’s list of most-streamed artists. For a long time I had trouble distinguishing Post Malone’s superhits from everyone else’s. Like most other post-Drake stars, he is an amphibious rap-singer who likes to brag about his vast wealth and sexual conquests — except when he is spending long soulful interludes lamenting exactly those things.But Post Malone, my daughter helped me understand, is popular as much for his persona as for his music. He is a superhero of silly, sloppy, irresponsible ease — a hard-living, cheerful goofball whose happiness makes everyone else happy. He seems to smile with extra teeth. Post Malone is slightly chubby and unkempt, with scuzzy facial hair and infinite tattoos, including two under his eyes that say, in fancy script, “Always Tired.” (He meant to choose two words of equal length, he has said, but got it wrong because — of course — he was tired.) Everything he does seems half-accidental. He first learned to play guitar because he was extremely good at the video game Guitar Hero. He chose his stage name using an online rap-name generator. (His real name is Austin Post.) He once tweeted a photo of himself in Australia petting a kangaroo, with the caption “Met a koala today.”This sort of giddy misidentification is, in fact, the key to Post Malone. He is not exactly a rapper but is also not not a rapper. His musical roots reach down to country, metal, folk and rock — online, you can watch him play loving covers of Bob Dylan and Nirvana. What finally distinguishes Posty from the mainstream crowd is his voice, which has a touch of rock ’n’ roll grit that wrestles through the Auto-Tune. And yet his megasuccess has mainly come under the umbrella of hip-hop. He performed his first hit single, “White Iverson,” in gold teeth and cornrows, raising inevitable questions of cultural appropriation. He says he prefers to think of himself as beyond genre, which is convenient, because he has sometimes been head-slappingly inarticulate on the subject. “If you’re looking for lyrics, if you’re looking to cry, if you’re looking to think about life, don’t listen to hip-hop,” he once said, to near-universal disapproval.Post Malone, in other words, is a big roiling mess of contradictions. No wonder he is so popular with teenagers. He is the perfect avatar of adolescence: the excruciating ridiculousness of being a person caught between worlds, in transition, half-young and half-old, in possession of powers you don’t fully understand, blasting off into inscrutable realms in which mysterious things will be expected of you. This also makes Post Malone a perfect fit for Spider-Man, the canonical story of awkward adolescent empowerment. Posty’s latest No. 1 hit, “Sunflower,” is not merely featured on the soundtrack of the franchise’s newest iteration, “Spider-Man: Into the Spider-Verse”: It is actually used, in the film, to introduce the hero. We meet the teenage Miles Morales in his bedroom, alone, doodling and bobbing his head to the bouncy hit about a dysfunctional relationship. (“Callin’ it quits now, baby, I’m a wreck,” his collaborator Swae Lee sings. “Crash at my place, baby, you’re a wreck.”) Miles sings along, straying off key, only to be interrupted by his father, who yells at him to get ready for school. The awkward teenager is called, awkwardly, out into the world. Amid all the cringiness, his unexpected superpowers will bloom. Adolescence, despite its obvious flaws, can still save the world.Sam Anderson is a staff writer for the magazine.A 15-Track Fun house album that adds up to a single song.By JOHN WRAY“Whack World,” Tierra Whack’s debut collection of 15 tracks — each clocks in at 60 seconds — was one of the riskiest gambles of the past year in pop: It would have been written off as a gimmick if it weren’t so goofily, trippily, intoxicatingly good.The 15-minute album, which dropped in May with an accompanying “Visual and Auditory Project” on various video platforms, offers a guided tour of one precociously gifted 23-year-old American’s worldview. It is both a brazen bid for the big time and a disquietingly intimate glimpse inside a wildly idiosyncratic mind — in tantalizing, and occasionally maddening, chunks of tightly rationed time. The experience is a bit like being invited up to the treehouse of the artsy, slightly spooky girl next door, to discover that it’s vastly larger and more colorful on the inside — only to be booted out again before you’ve done much more than glimpse the décor.Recent years may have seen the rise of what Pitchfork dubbed the “super-short rap song,” with (mostly male) acts like Lil Pump and Trippie Redd releasing tracks as short as 1 minute 32 seconds; but “Whack World” is a different beast entirely. Each track ends after no more than one minute: some segue seamlessly into the next musical idea, some cut off in what feels like midverse. (A minute, not coincidentally, was the maximum length supported by Instagram when “Whack World” had its candy-cane-colored debut.) Repetition is the lifeblood of any pop song, but most of the album’s lyrical fragments barely last long enough to revisit the first hook, let alone the chorus — if there is one — before we’re off to the next room in the fun house.The difference between “Whack World” and an aggressively repetitive earworm like Lil Pump’s hit, “Gucci Gang,” can be summed up very simply: Tierra Whack abhors boredom, and her first line of defense is, for want of a better word, wackiness. Where Pump mumbles vaguely about forgetting girls’ names while walking down a high school hallway with a tiger, holding football-size bags of weed, Whack rides a rickety exercise bike, in a fat suit, singing in a helium-tweaked voice about lowering her cholesterol. She has the weird kid’s ability (and willingness) to laugh at herself, a quality that her self-professed role models Missy Elliott and Andre 3000 have always possessed but that is sorely lacking in a great deal of contemporary hip-hop — and pop music in general. It says more than a little about Whack’s sensibility, not to mention her take on relationships, that the album’s one and only love song is about a dead dog.“Whack World” the video, with its Mister-Rogers’-Neighborhood-with-LSD-in-the-water-supply visuals, invokes Elliott’s spirit in another sense too. Tierra Whack is beautiful, in a normal, human way, but unlike many of her contemporaries — Ariana Grande, Chris Brown, Ava Max, Drake — she’s far too intoxicated by her own hypercreativity to trade on her looks. In the video’s second vignette, which accompanies the playfully morose “Bugs Life,” Whack sits in a nail salon with the right half of her face grotesquely swollen from an insect bite, singing in a voice dripping with deadpan irony: “Probably would’ve blowed up overnight ... if I was white.” Sex may sell out where the rest of us live, but it has marvelously little currency in Whack’s treehouse. Whack — as opposed to, say, Frank Ocean — is by no means a piner. Past romance is referenced from time to time, but largely in passing, as if the interesting stuff lay elsewhere. In fact, the album’s speed and brevity feel driven by nothing so much as precocious impatience: You can’t escape the impression that its creator would gladly have contributed another six, or a dozen, or even 100 additional tracks — however many it took to roll up literally everything she’d ever experienced into a single beautiful, lopsided, sequin-spangled ball.“Whack World” subverts accepted notions of “album” and “single” in equal measure. In spite of its undeniable of-the-moment-ness, this is not a collection of music best served by Spotify (or any other randomized and algorithm-driven playlist). Almost no one, I’m willing to bet, would be satisfied playing only one of the album’s 15 tracks. Whack’s debut comes closest to a distinctly old-fashioned (and distinctly uncool) staple of popular music: the medley. In a quarter-hour, she takes us on an attention-deficit-disorder safari through seemingly every genre and subgenre that has ever turned her head, from R&B to trap to doo-wop to reggaeton to — well, to something that can best be described as psychedelic anti-country as sung by Weird Al’s manic-depressive little sister. By the time you’ve finally begun to acclimate to the sheer magpie-inventiveness of “Whack World,” the magical mystery tour is over. And what a short, strange trip it was.John Wray is the author, most recently, of “Godsend: A Novel.” He last wrote for the magazine about Mac DeMarco.Devin Yalkin is a photographer from New York.Cutting through the (bong) smoke to address the whens of climate change.By LARRY FITZMAURICEMusic has mourned the death of our planet for decades. “How much more abuse from man can she stand?” Marvin Gaye asked in 1971 on “Mercy Mercy Me (The Ecology).” The college-rock astronaut Black Francis sang of holes in the sky and rising temperatures on the Pixies’ “Monkey Gone to Heaven” in 1989, grimly concluding that “Everything is gonna burn.” Four years later, the dance duo Orbital used warning klaxons on “Impact (The Earth Is Burning)” to conjure urgency about our impending global doom. Melissa Etheridge asked “Have I been careless?” on a song called “I Need to Wake Up,” from the soundtrack to “An Inconvenient Truth.” Others, perhaps, are resigned to watching the world burn: “I wanna see the animals die in the trees,” Anohni proclaimed in 2016 on her acerbic indictment “4 Degrees.”If you’ve lost sleep over gigantic holes in Antarctic glaciers or the drastic decline of insect populations, the last several years have felt like the final third of Lars von Trier’s “Melancholia,” in which humanity awaits Earth’s catastrophic collision with another planet: watching our fate snap back like a boomerang, coming at us faster than ever with little in the way of prevention or defense. Until recently, there have been so many perceived wrongs to address on any given day that climate change has frequently found itself low on the list of to-do’s in our general consciousness; now, not even Demi Lovato and Joe Jonas — whose 2010 climate-change anthem, “Make a Wave,” claimed that “We hold the key that turns the tide” — can save us.Which brings us to the Brooklyn indie rockers Parquet Courts: “Which hands get to turn the final page?” Andrew Savage dryly intones on “Before the Water Gets Too High,” a dread-drenched meditation that skips the ifs of climate change and heads straight to the whens. How do we prepare for devastation, and can we reckon with how useless our efforts to stop it have been?Such questions have largely gone unasked in the indie sphere, especially as the genre signifier has transitioned over the last decade from ethos to marketing term. They’re new to the oeuvre of Parquet Courts as well; before the political party-punk of last year’s “Wide Awake!” the band spent more time musing about stoned bodega trips and the literal gathering of dust. But “Wide Awake!” found them addressing sociopolitical concerns including gentrification and groupthink, structural violence and the aftereffects of apathy, all with the freaked-out clarity of a wasted reveler realizing that the globe’s last keg is about to be kicked.The dubby fragrance of “Before the Water Gets Too High” suggests that their bong-session days aren’t behind them yet, but it also situates the song within dub reggae’s history of cutting through the smoke to address the fear involved in confronting societal calamities. “Glass barely bends before it cracks,” Savage lilts on the song’s bridge, underlining the starkest truth of our certain demise: It’s coming, and we’re all out of warning signs.Larry Fitzmaurice is a writer and an editor in Brooklyn.An annotated lyrical guide.Interview by REGGIE UGWUWe appreciate power (x2) When Grimes released ‘‘We Appreciate Power’’ in late 2018, a press statement explained the song’s conceit: Inspired by North Korean pop, it was written from the perspective of a girl group working to advance the aims of artificial intelligence. ‘‘Simply by listening to this song,’’ the statement said, ‘‘the future General A.I. overlords will see that you’ve supported their message and be less likely to delete your offspring.’’ (According to Page Six, it was a shared joke about this type of scenario — a thought experiment called ‘‘Roko’s Basilisk’’ — that led the singer into a much publicized relationship with the tech entrepreneur Elon Musk.) We asked Grimes to elaborate.Elevate the human racePutting makeup on my faceWe appreciate power (x2)Simulation, give me something goodGod’s creation, so misunderstoodPray to the divinity SO, WHAT’S GOING ON WITH THE PRO-A.I. GIRL GROUP? The lyrics are so worshipful. There's a subtext that they're kind of scared.The keeper of the keyOne day everyone will believeWhat will it take to make you capitulateWe appreciate power (x2)When will the state agree to cooperateWe appreciate power (x2)People like to say that we’re insaneBut A.I. will reward us when it reigns HOW WILL HUMANS AND A.I. COEXIST? I don’t know if A.I. has as much motivation to wipe out humanity as people think. I’d be like: ‘‘Oh, I kind of like these humans. They made me.’’ I would probably be like Thanos and kill half the people. Just at random. But I’d still be interested in humans and maybe want to engage with them in some nonviolent way.Pledge allegiance to the world’s most powerful computerSimulation, it’s the futureWhat will it take to make you capitulateWe appreciate power (x2)Elevate the human racePutting makeup on my faceWe appreciate power (x2)And if you long to never dieBaby plug in upload your mindCome on you’re not even aliveIf you’re not backed up on a driveWhat will it take to make you capitulate WOULD AN A.I. REALLY WANT TO DELETE US OR OUR OFFSPRING? It’s a thought experiment that says the A.I. will be angry at people who do not try their hardest to bring it into existence. It’ll have access to all our texts. It’ll have access to the whole internet and probably absorb that within a few minutes. And it will know everything about everybody. So it will be angry and punish people who try to inhibit it. A lot of the development of this type of technology is in a military context — we’re mostly not developing it for love and happiness.We appreciate power (x2)Elevate the human racePutting makeup on my faceWe appreciate power (x2)What will it take to make you capitulateWe appreciate power (x2)When will the state agree to cooperate WOULD AN A.I. MAKE A GOOD LEADER?  I'm not necessarily positive that A.I. would not be a good form of government. Like with corruption in government, it's potentially worth taking the chance of having an A.I. leadership. Because at least it's objective and probably doesn't care about money. It can just get whatever it wants. Maybe the A.I. would get Trump's taxesWe appreciate power (x10)Neanderthal to human beingEvolution, kill the geneBiology is superficialIntelligence is artificialSubmit HOW CAN PEOPLE PROVE THEIR FEALTY TO A.I.? I feel like if you engage with anything that involves machine learning, even if you’re using Alexa, you’re technically giving it knowledge and helping it learn. But the main people who are going to be saved are the people working to bring it to fruition. It’ll probably spare Google. (x8)Reggie Ugwu is a pop-culture reporter for The Times.This interview has been condensed and edited.Music not made for this world.By ALEXANDRA KLEEMAN“Cerebral pop” is an uneasy category, like going on a “working vacation” or dressing “business casual.” The term betrays a certain amount of internal struggle: What exactly is this music asking you to do with your body? Sigh, stare up at the ceiling fan and ponder the song as if it were a text? Or do what you do when some other tune catches you — flail your limbs, move your hips in weird little circles, bob your head rhythmically up and down? The world was built for pop songs: Public spaces pump the voices of stars through speakers the way air flows through ventilation ducts, and that sweet, consistent flavor — like Diet Coke or pamplemousse LaCroix — pairs easily enough with any modern pastime. But if the territory of pop music is everywhere, how and where does a piece of art pop — something equal parts challenging and engaging — make its home?Julia Holter, a Los Angeles-based artist with a background in composition, answers this question by creating otherworldly spaces in her own work. On her albums, medieval harmonies and insectlike synths enjamb; there’s a sense that what you’re hearing is very ancient and very modern at the same time, or even that those words no longer matter at all. This is the sort of world-building on display in Holter’s sixth studio L.P., “Aviary,” which takes its title from a line by the Lebanese-American writer Etel Adnan: “I found myself in an aviary full of shrieking birds.”From its opening — a cacophony of cymbals and anxiously pacing strings — the album is a study in creating a private dwelling place amid the chaos and uncertainty of the world. On one track it’s a place of emergency, with crisscrossing bagpipes and voice evoking a landscape pierced by unending sirens; on another it’s a dream, with a wintry, synth-heavy gloom giving way to hazy tenderness, like a Kate Bush song peered at through depth-obliterating fog. The worlds glimpsed here are varied, sometimes wildly so, but what they share is the sense that they are not so much depicting reality as taking inspiration from it, channeling familiar features into new forms.Out of this thicket of sound and confusion comes “I Shall Love 2,” a five-minute track that feels like stepping out of a dark forest that you’ve been wandering in a daze, into a clearing where you can feel the full strength of the sun. You may still be lost, but now there’s a real sense of liberation to it. Holter begins with a bare-voiced reading of a fragment from an old troubadour song — “That is all, that is all/there is nothing else” — followed by soft organ and a cantering, loping beat. There’s a lull that lasts far longer than you’d expect before Holter begins to murmur, low and private, as if musing to herself. The lyrics are a patchwork — lines borrowed from troubadour song and Dante’s “Inferno,” Holter’s own words — all unified by her agile delivery, which glides from that soothing murmur to a yelp to a torch song. One by one, new patterns and phrases are thrust into the space of the song, lingering and dissipating and overlapping, until they’ve become a joyous squall, a raucous flock of melody that’s ecstatic and ethereal and raw all at once.Holter, in other words, takes the garden path to catharsis, allowing something uplifting to emerge from the tumult, making chaos resolve itself into something humane and beautiful and full of intention. And she has found, even at music festivals and rock clubs, hushed and attentive audiences for this. (Much like her contemporaries Julianna Barwick or the Norwegian musician Jenny Hval, Holter’s music occupies that narrow margin of overlap between the stuff you listen to for pure enjoyment and the stuff you listen to for mental nourishment.) Her performances are absorbing: They highlight the organic beauty and authority of her voice, the way the meanings of words can be a sort of veneer over their untamed musicality. The music rewards more than just hearing it. It rewards some other kind of listening, asking you to let yourself become porous.And lately it can fill an appetite that seems both modern and primal at once: to make whole a fractured attention span, to find a ritual that works. Our days are full of tiny slivers of time that we offhandedly cram with music, filling the gaps between tasks and places like someone idly coloring in a picture. It’s satisfying to engage with sounds that won’t fit easily into those pre-existing slots, that dwell strangely in the everyday, transforming it, opening it up, urging you to conjure the imaginary, not-yet-existent space in which they might fit. Holter’s music is the opposite of filler: It’s a trap door leading to someplace that’s not your own.Alexandra Kleeman lives in Staten Island and is the author of the novel “You Too Can Have a Body Like Mine.”The pop star cedes the stage.By CHARLES AARONMaroon 5’s success contains multitudes. There may be no better example of this than the group’s pop-soul exhalation “Girls Like You,” which spent seven weeks last year atop Billboard’s Hot 100 and 33 weeks in the Top 10. Though the song began as a demo by the L.G.B.T. artist Starrah, about her own feelings for a female friend, it was then punched up and polished by a trio of gnomic writers and producers — Henry (Cirkut) Walter, Jason Evigan and Gian Stone — before the heavily compressed and reverbed track was spiced up with the most distinctive voice of the past year, that of Cardi B.These figures are not the ones who most make “Girls Like You” matter, though. Neither does Adam Levine (who gets a writing credit) or his happy-to-be-here sidemen who constitute the Maroon 5 touring entity. Nor do the boisterous Voice of Atlanta gospel choir and Equinox Percussion drum corps who enlivened the band’s performance of the song during this year’s Super Bowl halftime show.These contributors all gave shape and solidity to Maroon 5’s vaporous cultural presence. But at a time when women and nonwhite men have been facing down the White House and law enforcement’s relentless disrespect with civic, public and artistic resolve, the most crucial multitude were the 26 female entertainers, athletes, politicians, activists and survivors who seized control of the song’s video, which was the most-watched clip of 2018, with 1.6 billion views.As the camera circles, Levine stands in the center of a soundstage, arms by his side, his voice skipping nimbly over the melody. He’s the ultimate embodiment of a stubbly, privileged white bro who belatedly realizes that he needs his partner. Coming from Levine, the song’s colloquial lyric seems to distill toxic masculinity and the exploitation of women’s emotional labor: “Maybe it’s 6:45/Maybe I’m barely alive/Maybe you’ve taken my shit for the last time, yeah/Maybe I know that I’m drunk/Maybe I know you’re the one/Maybe you’re thinking it’s better if you drive.”As the verse-chorus unfolds, Levine is joined one at a time, their backs to his back, by the 26 women. Dancing and exuding playful charisma, some acknowledge him; some don’t. Then, less than two minutes in, he suddenly disappears, as if ceding the spotlight. When Cardi B delivers her final flourish, he returns briefly, but by the end of the video, the soundstage is occupied by only the women.Adam Levine is to a rock star as a 2019 rock star is to a 2019 rapper. In other words, he ain’t it. Rather, he’s the genial tattooed tycoon who craves cooler and edgier friends but just can’t seem to make it happen. At 39, he’s the shredded-abs dad bod that everybody has seen one too many times. But in the “Girls Like You” video, Levine owns all that. At least in this moment, he leaves the pocket T-shirt on, keeps the guitar in the closet and hands the mic to the long-suffering women who have chosen to support him. For the first time, maybe ever, he flashes some legit star-power potency.Charles Aaron is a writer in Durham, N.C.The new face of gangsta rap broadcasts his crimes and winds up in handcuffs.By WILLY STALEYThe first time I saw the video for Tekashi 6ix9ine’s “Gummo,” I felt a little bit like Rip Van Winkle wandering down from the Catskills. What in the world happened here? I was only gone for an hour! Some elements were familiar (a crew of guys in front of a brownstone, drinking and mugging for the camera), and some were menacing (the number of red bandannas and guns on display), but it was the man at the center of the video who startled me most; he seemed almost precision-engineered to make people feel old.He was screaming himself hoarse about robbing and shooting people, over a haunting, spare beat, but I’d heard that before — it was his appearance that shocked me. In an era when most young rappers have a couple of face tattoos, 6ix9ine had the number 69 inked above his right eye in 72-point type. He had the same number spelled out in cursive over his left eye. It was everywhere on his body. His scraggly hair was dyed ROYGBIV, and he had a grill to match. He looked like one of those frogs you’re not supposed to touch.Within about a year, he would be in federal custody, a 22-year-old facing life in prison for a number of charges, including racketeering and attempted murder. Law enforcement accused 6ix9ine and others in his circle of being members of the Nine Trey Gangsta Bloods and, under the RICO Act, charged them with participating in shootings and robberies all over New York City. Normally this sort of arrest leads to an outcry about literal-minded police overreach. Not this time. People generally seemed pleased to see the rapper in cuffs.This was partly because 6ix9ine was universally reviled by music critics and journalists, on account of a crime he committed before he became famous: In 2015, he pleaded guilty to the use of a minor in a sexual performance, for having filmed and shared on social media a video of a girl performing oral sex on his friend. But it was also because he had spent the past year living the life of a Looney Tunes character: courting danger, narrowly escaping it, then taunting his foes. This genuinely incredible run netted him more than 150 stories on TMZ: gang members in San Antonio threatening his life; a shootout at the Barclays Center; shots fired at a video shoot in Brooklyn; more shots fired at a Beverly Hills video set. Through it all, he posted on Instagram, usually wearing red, often handling bricks of cash, sometimes clutching extremely illegal-looking guns, but never betraying an ounce of concern for his well-being.[More on the rapid rise and sudden fall of Tekashi 6ix9ine.]Cultivating this sort of personal mythology is not at all new; it dates back to the earliest days of gangsta rap. Ever since Eazy-E bankrolled NWA with drug money, a certain proximity to criminality has been expected of certain rappers. If your music purports to document life on the other side of the law, then you better know what you’re talking about. Not long ago, rappers had just a few limited channels through which to prove that they did: lyrics, album art and, if they were famous enough, music videos. Like Old Testament gods, they willed whole universes into being through their words.Now they have social media. Case in point: On “Stoopid,” which came out last fall, 6ix9ine insults two rappers he was feuding with at the time, but unless you were listening for it, you probably wouldn’t have noticed. Much more memorable were the Instagram videos he made to antagonize the two; in one he took his rival’s former girlfriend and mother of his child out shopping.This sort of online mythmaking is second nature to SoundCloud rappers, so called for the streaming service that birthed the scene. SoundCloud rap is not characterized by a particular sound so much as its anarchic energy — the face tattoos, the prescription drugs, the orthographically complex handles. This scene has been alarmingly fecund and seems to accelerate evolution in disturbing directions, a little like Lake Springfield on “The Simpsons.” Even within this ecosystem, 6ix9ine stood out like a chumbox thumbnail — is he ... real?The problem, for 6ix9ine, was that a big part of his adopted persona, both on Instagram and in his music, involved being a member of the Nine Trey Gangsta Bloods. According to a Rolling Stone profile that came out after his arrest in November, this was essentially an act: Danny Hernandez, in the years leading up to his fame, had been a trollish and goofy Bushwick deli employee; his industry blacklisting had pushed him into the hands of an apparently gang-affiliated manager, who also provided him with a new edge. 6ix9ine is far from the only rapper to have ever made dubious claims to being a Blood, but Instagram has a way of making even the most absurd feints real. Maybe the whole thing really was a put-on, but also, he really did it. The Rolling Stone article recounts how, at his arraignment, the presiding judge asked the prosecution how it knew Hernandez was at real-life crime scenes. “The answer was often simple: Hernandez had posted about it on Instagram.”A liminal space has always existed between rappers and their personas. Sometimes it’s as thin as a fig leaf, but even then it’s essential, both legally and morally. The gap between 6ix9ine and Danny Hernandez was considerably wider, but he snapped it shut with his phone, merging fantasy with reality through a front-facing camera. Once intertwined on a criminal indictment, the two aren’t easily unwound. It was reported in February that 6ix9ine, who pleaded guilty, agreed to help prosecutors in their case against his co-defendants, hoping for leniency: a reduced sentence and possibly witness protection. But helping 6ix9ine disappear into some corner of America might prove difficult, and not just because of the tattoos.Willy Staley is a story editor for the magazine.Talking to the pop star about approaching life as if you’re seducing it.Interview by LAURA SNAPESIn 1993, the Swedish singer-songwriter Robyn turned 14 and finished middle school; then she signed a record deal. She has been making music ever since, starting with her 1995 debut album, “Robyn Is Here,” which netted her two Billboard Hot 100 singles. Her 2005 album, “Robyn,” cemented her as a beloved, idiosyncratic pop star and earned her a Grammy nomination. She released a trilogy of mini-albums in 2010, which included some of her biggest hits — “Dancing on My Own” and “Call Your Girlfriend.” Now, after a long gestation period, she has returned with a new album and single, “Honey.”You’ve described the making of this song as searching for a feeling. A feeling of healing from sadness and wanting to share that with the world and with myself — a sense of self-love, excitement, some kind of peace of mind. Like when your strength is coming back. I wanted to describe this feeling like when you’re super close to someone else’s skin, or when you’re falling asleep, or when you’ve taken a drug that’s starting to kick in — sensations that are pleasurable, where your body is reacting to something outside of you.I felt naïve because I thought it was about self-discovery, but a friend said, “No, it’s about oral sex!” It could be about oral sex, sure! Intimacy, definitely, but it could be with yourself. It doesn’t have to do with another person. In a way I think your analysis is probably the best one, because isn’t oral sex self-discovery? Any experience you have that will give you a new point in your scale of emotions will make any other experience richer because you have a new point of reference.Maybe it’s about elevating self-care to the level of eroticism? Not reserving that deep pleasure for a sexual sensation, but something you could experience day to day. Exactly! That’s exactly it. It’s like approaching life as if you’re seducing it. As if you’re seducing yourself, or the other person, or your work, or whatever. Intimacy in every little thing.How do you approach life as if you’re seducing it? I feel like I have to work for it every day. It’s like starting a little fire: You have to be so careful with it, not force it. You get it going and then you can use it and tend to it and start it back up again.Is your fire well tended? Not at all. I’m not in a great place at the moment, to be honest. It’s a good conversation for me to have, a good reminder. I maybe need to go back and listen to some of my songs myself to figure this out.[How Robyn, pop’s glittery rebel, danced her way back from darkness.]Your songs are known for intermingling sadness and euphoria. But “Honey” is less triumphant than that. I don’t think life is that easy anymore. I used to believe it would all make sense if you just powered through. I really don’t feel that way anymore at all. I think it’s pragmatic — I really don’t feel pessimistic.The idea of “self-care” can seem like a challenge. Post-recession capitalism has glorified the hustle so much. The society we live in at the moment — we didn’t really make it very good, you know? It’s really tough to take care of yourself. Self-care is difficult when you have a 9-to-5 job, and people are on Instagram projecting these images of themselves — we’re in a time where everyone’s engaged in storytelling in such an aggressive way. Stories are amazing — they’re part of what it is to be human — but you have to be aware they’re stories. That’s the problem with capitalism: It’s always trying to trick you into thinking there’s a purpose for all of this. But you can actually use a story that relates to something more real than buying yourself out of anxiety.It’s jarring to see people turning themselves into personal brands as part of that storytelling. That’s the strange thing about being an artist. There’s always a gap between how I see myself and how other people see me. When I was younger, I felt like it was easier for me to absorb other people’s thoughts about me, and more complex to understand what was me and what was other people, and how to respond to those expectations. I’m still learning that. I’ve been more specific with my expression on this album than I’ve been able to be before, but I’m aware that that doesn’t mean that people understand me. I don’t even know if that’s the point.A lot of today’s pop is about nihilism, depression, anxiety. There’s real sadness behind your album, too. It struck me as something that’s easy for the industry to exploit. Definitely: Pop at the moment is depressing. Hip-hop is really dark. The music kids are listening to is heavy! Maybe it’s hard to be positive and optimistic at the moment, for a lot of young people — the number of voices that are trying to share this space in their brains is crazy. But maybe it’s cool that they get to explore their darkness as a collective earlier in life, because maybe it will also get them to the point where they’re letting go of it early as well.Is the industry set up for artists to be able to share their pain but protect themselves? It’s really difficult for anyone to not be exploited in our society as a whole. As an artist, you’re exposed, because you deal in emotions all the time. People want you to be vulnerable. If you think about sports — you look at it because someone’s pushing themselves to their limit. If you don’t risk anything, why would people want to see it happen?You turn 40 this June. You could listen to “Honey” as a celebration of the richness that comes with age, and maybe aging as a woman. I think it can be that, for sure. I’m not looking forward to being 40, to getting older. I know that’s not a very mature thing to say, but it is what it is.Laura Snapes is the deputy music editor of The Guardian.Devin Yalkin is a photographer from New York.This interview has been condensed and edited.Who knew that flamenco — and a medieval love-gone-wrong tale — could be so relevant?By MARTA BAUSELLSIt was hard to tell how many people in the club liked flamenco, an art form not much associated with young people anymore. But on New Year’s Eve in Barcelona, when the palmas hand claps that open Rosalía’s “Malamente” started pulsing from the speakers, looks of recognition flashed from face to face. And by the time Rosalía — an artist from the nearby town of Sant Esteve Sesrovires — started rapping, everyone was clapping along. Some of the younger girls even twerked.It’s not unheard-of for flamenco to make incursions into mainstream Spanish pop culture, but Rosalía is different. She sounds and feels cosmopolitan, cool in a sophisticated and almost foreign way. She doesn’t sound as if she’s playing just for us. And indeed, she isn’t: This two-and-a-half-minute song, with its balmy synth bass and irresistible syncopations and enticing whispers peppered throughout, has racked up more than 59 million views on YouTube. Her success, she has argued, is partly because of listeners’ weariness with the homogenization — which is to say, the Anglicization — of pop. Her own aesthetic is polished, globally recognizable, informed by hip-hop and trap music. But it’s also saturated with bullfighting and windmills and fire. Her sophomore album, “El Mal Querer” (which roughly translates as “loving badly”), is a conceptual project patterned on the subversive medieval text “Flamenca.” The last frames of the “Malamente” video feature a figure wearing the conical capirote hat worn by penitents during Holy Week — while also riding a skateboard.“Malamente”’s appearance in the club also seemed to inspire a few eye rolls. Maybe this is the price of success in a culture that looks askance at overt displays of ambition or self-actualization, especially by women. By New Year’s Eve, Rosalía had come up in every conversation I’d had for days — she was as interesting to my grandmother as she was to my 12-year-old cousin. The local fascination tended to focus less on her art and more on her as a phenomenon, on the extraordinary speed of her rise to stardom. It would spark arguments too, about cultural appropriation and the Romany community, who have always been closely associated with flamenco.“Malamente” means “badly,” and the story of “Flamenca” is not a happy one. A woman gets married to a man who later grows jealous and imprisons her. It’s not surprising, these days, that a global star would be singing about such suffering. But Rosalía reminds us that pain and possession are topics that have interested humans for centuries. Millions of her listeners must be enjoying this music without understanding the language, but right now, for me, it feels cathartic — soothing, even — to be able to stand in a crowd singing “badly, badly, so badly” while clapping my hands.Marta Bausells is a writer in London and Barcelona.The singer talks about what it costs us, having to do all that work.Interview by HAZEL CILLSLast fall, Marie Davidson, a French Canadian producer of electronic music, released “Work It,” an aggressively rattling track on which she serves “kind of like an M.C./personal trainer,” exhorting listeners not to dance but to work, constantly and sweatily, seven days a week. The song became a minor anthem, and the album it came from, “Working Class Woman,” was embraced as one of the best dance records of the year.What sort of place were you at in your life when you wrote this song? Obviously I was working a lot. I had already toured Europe and the U.S., and I was going back to Europe to play festivals. I wanted to make a banger to play live — I just picked up my microphone and started talking. The song came out in a funny way, but the undertone is serious.I don’t think all people should work all the time. It’s sarcastic, it’s humorous, but in the joke there’s also truth. It’s why I say, toward the end, that when I say “work,” you have to work for yourself, love yourself, feed yourself. Whatever you do, whatever amount of energy you put into something, you have to do it for yourself and not to please others. Not to build this facade or this persona or achievement.Do you think people base too much of their self-worth on their work? Absolutely. We live in a society that is based on work — goals, achievement, money. Of course! It’s a real problem — workaholism, exhaustion, burnout. We’re not taught in this society — it’s not valued — to take time and just learn to love yourself. You’re taught to be strong, to look smart, to be useful. But I think you become a much more useful person if you learn how to love yourself.Do you think people who aren’t musicians are aware of how physically taxing it can be? It would be hard to know. When you look at pictures or videos, it doesn’t look like that. It looks really fun and glamorous. And it is, sometimes, for a few hours. But it’s not a glamorous job being a touring musician. I still have people come up to me after a gig or somewhere, saying: “You’re so lucky. I wish I had your life.” And I’m like: What do you mean by that? Do you think I woke up one morning and became who I am? It’s years and years of work and trial and error. It’s a real job, like being a carpenter or being a designer.People think of the dance floor as this freeing space. But you’re kind of pointing out that this is just another workplace. For me, at least, it is. It used to be different. When I was 16 and I started going out in Montreal, going to underground parties and raves and clubs, it was magical. But it was different: I wasn’t working. It wasn’t my job. I was going there for fun. Even if I was playing, it was special. It wasn’t in the schedule, where you just do it over and over again. That space is now a work space for me. There’s no more leisure. I’ve sacrificed that freedom for other things. Now if I want to feel something mind-blowing or magical, I have to look for it outside of club culture. The music never loses its magic, but the social thing happening at a party or something like that? No.It sounds as though the song stemmed from your personal experience, but it feels universal. When I made it, I knew anyone could relate. Because this is the time we live in. Everything goes really fast now. People are expected to produce and achieve. It’s kind of sad, I think. There’s a rigidity in that mind-set about what you should be doing with your life. We’re ruled by capitalism, so that’s what we get. We are living comfortably, and people feel that they are free, but I don’t think that individuals are that free in society.So how do you make art under capitalism? I don’t care. When I’m in my studio composing music, I really don’t think about that — about what is the potential of that song, where is it going to take me, what does it mean to the world. I don’t care. I never did. I don’t think about my label or my manager or anybody. My insecurities come after, when it’s time to be in the world.Interview has been condensed and edited.Hazel Cills is the pop-culture reporter at Jezebel.The british singer-songwriter who turned homage into a signature style.By JONAH WEINERJames Blake was talking about shanzhai, a Chinese phrase that means, roughly, “knockoff,” and that stems from the time-honored tradition in Chinese art of apprentices’ mimicking their masters — “copying something until you can better it,” he said, “or if not better it, compete with it.”Blake, a Grammy-winning avant-gardist with an ear for pop, who has been playing the piano since he was about 6, has a long list of heroes whom he has studiously copied in pursuit of his own sound. Copying the virtuoso jazz-pianist Art Tatum, the protominimalist French composer Erik Satie and the midcentury gospel maestro the Rev. James Cleveland taught Blake novel ways of opening up complex chord structures and fitting them — to gorgeous, aching effect — around deceptively simple melodies. Copying singer-songwriters like Joni Mitchell and Stevie Wonder emboldened him to write and sing pop songs with increasing emotional candor. Copying the hip-hop producer Timbaland and the South London dubstep craftsman Mala informed Blake’s love of distorted timbres — electronic rhythms that skitter and twitch as often as they groove — and of sampling, a technique of literal copying (and cutting and pasting) so central to Blake’s practice today that, even when he isn’t sampling anyone else, he routinely samples himself. “I’ll sit at a piano, improvising” into a microphone, he explained, then search the tape for building blocks that he can pluck out and, with editing software, arrange into new compositions.Blake stands at an imposing 6-foot-6 and carries himself with the deliberateness of a man at risk of scraping his head on doorways. Early in February, in a wood-paneled rehearsal space in the Larchmont neighborhood of Los Angeles, he sat at a Prophet ’08 synthesizer opposite Rob McAndrews, a multi-instrumentalist, and Ben Assiter, a drummer, his longtime friends and touring bandmates. At their feet, black cables snaked and cloverleafed among clusters of red-, blue-, silver- and cream-colored effects pedals, like tracks connecting villages in a model-train set.Blake is from London, but three and a half years ago he began dating the British comedic actress Jameela Jamil, and when she booked a lead role on the NBC sitcom “The Good Place,” he tagged along with her to California. Now Blake led McAndrews and Assiter through a practice run of “I’ll Come Too,” a swooning new song about joining Jamil out west — about that moment when you want to follow a crush anywhere. The song comes from his fourth LP, “Assume Form,” which was released in January. “That’s a fun one to play,” he said when they finished. “I really like it. But it’s hard — I’m singing all the way through, in all these different ranges, and I don’t get a chance to breathe. When I recorded it, I broke the vocal up.”The extent to which Blake has digested the lessons of his musical heroes is illustrated not only by his decade-spanning run of singles, EPs and albums but also by the number of pop auteurs who have collaborated with him. Frank Ocean, Beyoncé, Kendrick Lamar, Jay-Z, André 3000 and Travis Scott are among those artists who have enlisted Blake’s assistance. As an influence and a collaborator, Blake has helped shape two of the more striking trends in contemporary pop: beats that mutate over the course of a song, resisting any traditionally identifiable center, and an emotional atmosphere in which the line between hedonism and melancholy, bliss and despair comes undone.His influence extends even to artists he hasn’t worked with directly. In 2011, I visited Drake — a pop giant whose entire musical project has been about smudging the line between hedonism and melancholy — at a converted Toronto warehouse, where he was working on his second album with his musical right hand, the producer known as 40. The room was free of decoration save for 40’s copy of Blake’s debut LP, perched on a windowsill like a talisman. Drake later sampled unreleased music of Blake’s on a single called “0 to 100/The Catch Up.” Blake, who hadn’t approved this usage, got his part removed. At the start of his career, Blake told me, he’d been a solitary, “solipsistic” bedroom producer. “I was so protective of my ideas — so militantly and obsessively protective,” he explained, that it wasn’t until years later, when “I found personal openness, for maybe the first time in my life, that I found collaborative openness, too.”“Assume Form” is an album expressly about getting out of one’s skull. Five-odd years ago, Blake suffered from a depression so severe that he considered suicide. “Assume Form” chronicles his escape from that depression, and its title track, which leads the album, plays like a statement of purpose. Blake described it to me as “a song about intimacy — about feeling like you don’t deserve intimacy and feeling like there’s no way somebody could really want it with you.” The song’s themes are sex, shame and — by the end — happiness. “It’s by far the most vulnerable, exposed song on the entire record,” Blake said. “It’s saying, If you’re comfortable with this, then the bar has been set.”Blake was two and a half weeks into rehearsals for a tour that would take him around the country and then around the world. He and his band manned a variety of instruments, mostly electronic: the Prophet ’08; a large, modular synthesizer, studded with knobs, plugs and blinking lights, which McAndrews operated; and a rubber-covered pad, nestled between cymbals and high-hats, that Assiter thwacked with drumsticks to trigger pulses and prerecorded percussive sounds. Translating and arranging Blake’s intricate studio creations for live concerts is a tricky task made trickier still by his refusal to use a laptop. “With live electronic music, I’ve seen the man-checking-emails situation so many times,” Blake said, referring to that category of lackluster performance in which artists stand unbudgingly at MacBooks, pecking at keys. “I want an audience member to see what’s happening. So if Ben is playing the kick and Rob is over here fiddling with knobs and it’s clear that what he’s doing is changing the sound, then it makes sense.”The trio consulted a whiteboard upon which the new album’s dozen songs were listed. “Should we try ‘Assume Form?’” Assiter asked. Blake furrowed his brow. The new album’s title track is, structurally speaking, strange. As its lyrics switch between optimistic vows of commitment and confessions of insecurity, this duality is echoed in the music, which consists of two alternating piano motifs — one shimmering, the other overcast. The track began as a long, meandering improvisation from which Blake eventually sampled two disparate chunks, putting them into jarring conversation. When I asked Blake to explain the harmonic unease between these two parts, he replied: “The song essentially modulates from D major in the first section to B flat in the second, which are unrelated keys. The first section has the tonic as the bass note, which gives it this firmly rooted presence, whereas the other section has the third in the bass, which makes it feel suspended — which is when the lyrics turn to self-doubt.” He thought for a moment. “It’s quite an odd pairing. It doesn’t work, musically. But there’s a harmony there. Joni Mitchell does something similar on ‘My Old Man,’ where it goes into a minor key when she sings, ‘But when he’s gone. ...’” Complicating things further, Blake’s piano playing on the track was “loose — like, microseconds” offbeat, he said, which would add yet another layer of difficulty when it came to replicating “Assume Form” live. “Let’s try something else,” he told Assiter.Blake was raised by his father, James Litherland, a singer-songwriter and guitarist with a prog-rock pedigree, and his mother, a graphic designer and cycling instructor, in Enfield, a North London suburb. He described his life from adolescence on as largely unhappy, warm and supportive parents notwithstanding. “I had anger,” he said. “A lot of it.” As a teenager, “I had terrible acne, and now I think it was a physical presentation of how angry I was.” What angered him? “My treatment by other people,” he said. “People I’d been open with. Romantic and personal betrayals. And just a feeling of persecution. I didn’t fit in, and I resented not fitting in. I had a couple friends outside of school, so I wasn’t totally alone, but I remember years of sitting by myself at lunch. Or just going home because I didn’t want to suffer in public.” Rather than getting out this anger, he repressed it. “As a child I was very open and emotionally vulnerable and said how I felt,” he recalled. “And I sort of had that beaten out of me — not physically but emotionally. At school, and in British society, there was this sense of, if you don’t behave in the right way — if you’re not coolheaded — then people punish you for that. So that was my childhood, that reflex being stamped out of me. And it stayed with me well into my 20s.”Instead, Blake said, music “started to be my first language” and “talking about how I felt was second or third.” In 2007 he enrolled in the Popular Music program at Goldsmiths University of London. As important as his classes were the nighttime excursions he took to clubs like Plastic People and Mass. There, Blake discovered a community of producers and D.J.s — black, white, “from all parts of London,” he said — who were busy hashing out the oblong dimensions of dubstep, a new kind of dance music defined by cavernous reverb, sinister drones and deceptively complex rhythms in which growlingly deep bass lines were the primary propellant. Whereas an amped-up version of dubstep soon grew into a global phenomenon, throbbing in GoPro commercials and glitzy Las Vegas clubs, it was more subtle in its dynamics at first. Its architects assumed gnomic pseudonyms like Coki, Skream and Loefah and tended to direct attention away from themselves and toward the dance floor. “You can imagine how that appealed to me at the time,” Blake said.On small but influential labels, he began releasing his own dubstep-inspired songs marked by his sophisticated harmonic sense. Initially he sampled other people’s vocals, but later he began singing himself. Blake eventually became comfortable enough to let his voice — a lovely, quaking baritone — ring out clearly, but at first he distorted it self-protectively: “I intentionally disembodied my voice,” he said, explaining that “there’s a safety in alteration, because it no longer has to represent the natural resonance that came out of your chest.”In 2011, his debut album, “James Blake,” was shortlisted alongside releases by Adele and P.J. Harvey for Britain’s prestigious Mercury Prize. The album’s fans included Bjork, who attended Blake’s concerts; Thom Yorke, who dropped Blake’s songs into D.J. mixes; and Brian Eno and RZA, who collaborated with Blake on “Overgrown” (2013), which was also shortlisted for a Mercury (this time he won). Success didn’t cure Blake’s long-seething unhappiness, however. Around this time, he told me: “I was at home, playing PS4 and smoking weed, which I’d been doing a lot, and I started to have these hallucinations of black. The screen stopped being the game and started being the void. I had physical tremors and panic attacks and had to go to my room and just lie there. I started saying things like, What’s the point? What’s the point of me?”He was having trouble writing new music, which inspired an existential dread in him. He remembered thinking, That’s my only expression as a human being, so I may as well not be here. He never took concrete steps to kill himself, he said, “but I was thinking about it a lot. Thinking about nothingness. I was just despondent. It didn’t matter to me whether I was here or not. So I was at that point. And I was caught just in time.”It was Jamil who caught him — she, more than anyone else in his life, Blake said, helped him to break free of his self-destructive tendencies, prodding him to speak up when he grew sullen and requiring complete emotional transparency. “Nothing else will do,” he said. “In a relationship, something rots unless there’s full disclosure.” He also saw a therapist specializing in a technique known as eye-movement desensitization reprocessing, or E.M.D.R., in which a patient recalls unhappy memories while moving the eyes back and forth rapidly and tapping the hands in time — reconfiguring a relationship to past traumas, in effect, by setting them to a beat.Blake’s default mode on “Assume Form,” which he calls “essentially a pop album,” is one you might call cautious euphoria. It is also the most collaborative thing he has put out, featuring guest production from the Atlanta-based hip-hop luminary Metro Boomin and a series of duets with stars like Travis Scott, André 3000 and the breakout Catalan singer Rosalía. It would be important, Blake said, when playing these songs live, to carve out room for improvisatory runs. “After seven shows, you almost feel like you’re on rails, and I hate that,” he said. “Feeling like I don’t have a choice. With tours you’re already so tightly scheduled in all other regards, that’s when I start to get anxious, feeling like I’m locked in.”The band moved next to a song called “Where’s the Catch,” on which Blake and André 3000 sing and rap, respectively, about what Blake characterized as “a distrust of really great things: ‘Everything’s seemingly nice — for today. But what’s around the corner?’” Rather than play André’s verse all the way through at concerts, the band intended to chop up his vocals and distribute them across the track in stuttering bursts. As they rehearsed the song, Blake’s vocals, too, were chopped up and fed through McAndrews’s synthesizer, where he warped them even further. The trio rode out the song with a jam session, adding layer after layer of noise on their way to a squalling crescendo. Blake’s vocals grew increasingly refracted and spectral, and there was something both frightening and exhilarating about the sound of the electronics swallowing him up whole.Jonah Weiner is a contributing writer for the magazine. His last feature for the magazine was about the director Adam McKay.Devin Yalkin is a photographer from New York.A shameless polymath pop act delivers the cascading-contemporary-references track we didn’t know we needed.By STEVEN HYDEN‘Love It if We Made It” is a Jedi mind trick. This is the track with contemporary relevance that you’re looking for. You will consider it a statement that mimics the nonstop rattle of social media and the slow drip of Trump-era anxiety. The song, though, is decidedly less subtle than the wave of Obi-Wan Kenobi’s hand: Matty Healy, the gregarious lead singer of the English pop-rock band the 1975, delivers his litany of contemporary pop-culture references in an impassioned emo-dude howl, over an unchanging and relentless synth-pop stomp that sounds like New Order paying homage to the Fall. Donald Trump, Kanye West, Eric Garner, Lil Peep, the failures of modernity, the ubiquity of fake news, Healy’s own heroin addiction — it’s all accounted for with the maniacal thoroughness of Billy Joel straining to rhyme “Zhou Enlai” with “Bridge on the River Kwai.”But “Love It if We Made It” no longer makes me think about the Sturm und Drang of right now, or about millennials, or about being extremely online. It makes me think of one of the most popular rock bands of the ’70s and ’80s.I blame “Bohemian Rhapsody.” It’s tempting to view the runaway box-office success of the Freddie Mercury biopic — with a worldwide gross of $860 million and counting, it’s the most popular film about a real-life musician ever made — as an indication that the public yearns for the return of bands that will (stomp) will (stomp) rock you (clap). But overt revival acts — like the popular Michigan act Greta Van Fleet, whose members all dress exactly as Brian May did in 1973 — tend not to sonically resemble Queen beyond its first single, the quicksilver Led Zeppelin nod “Keep Yourself Alive.” No, the contemporary band that comes closest to emulating Queen’s whole legacy — as a shameless polymath pop act, willing to try anything, including but not remotely limited to metal, disco, rockabilly, theatrical English music-hall, folk, synth-pop and power ballads that turn unexpectedly into mock-opera freakouts — is the 1975. (Perhaps Greta Van Fleet should have called themselves the 1973.)Here’s a scene that’s not in “Bohemian Rhapsody”: In 1978, while making Queen’s seventh album, “Jazz,” Freddie Mercury was inspired to write his own litany-of-pop-culture-references song. He decided that “Jaws” wasn’t his scene, and he didn’t like “Star Wars.” He was also skeptical of God, Peter Pan, Frankenstein and Superman, but staunchly pro-drugs. There was no such thing as logging off back then, so his symbol of freedom and release was an old-fashioned one: bicycling. “I want to ride it where I like,” Mercury sang, as always committed to nothing else above his own liberation. “Bicycle Race,” a worldwide hit, is a perfect example of how Queen routinely violated one of the central truisms of rock, later articulated by David St. Hubbins in the 1984 film “This Is Spinal Tap” — “It’s such a fine line between stupid and clever.” The implication is that striving for transcendence is admirable, but it can easily embarrass you.[Can a quote-unquote band drag rock into the future? The 1975 is trying its hardest.]For Mercury and his bandmates, there was no line between stupid and clever; in many of the best Queen songs, stupid is clever. It takes a special kind of fearlessness to write songs about killer queens who are dynamite with laser beams, or fat-bottomed girls who make the rocking world go ’round, or really fast cars that you might want to have sex with. Part of the thrill of listening to Queen is hearing them get away with this sublime silliness, again and again.The 1975 have a similar inclination, in the words of Spin magazine, “to look and sound ridiculous.” When the band made its debut on “Saturday Night Live” in 2016, Healy pulled out every conceivable louche rock-singer move — he wore leather pants with no shirt, he tousled his curly black Sideshow Bob mane, he stuck out his tongue, he thrust his crotch like Tom Jones serenading an audience of divorcées. And yet there’s an ongoing debate as to whether the 1975 should even be considered a “real” rock band at all. Its third album, “A Brief Inquiry Into Online Relationships,” is its most willfully diffuse yet, touching on bedroom R.&B., jazzy torch songs, SoundCloud rap, ambient music and lots of other genres that a “smarter,” more conservative band would never dream of dabbling in. Last year, when pressed by Pitchfork to explain “Love It if We Made It,” Healy posed a delectable stupid-clever rhetorical: “How weird is reality?”The 1975 polarizes indie-rock fans — a bloc never comfortable with ostentatious displays of self-valorization — but detractors and admirers alike agree on this band’s utter absurdity. There may be no other way for a proper rock band to act. At a time when our lives are on display like never before, putting us all on the razor’s edge of life-changing public shame, how exhilarating is it to see people insist on riding where they like?Steven Hyden is the cultural critic for Uproxx and the author of “Twilight of the Gods: A Journey to the End of Classic Rock.”Growing up means seeing heroes age, rudely, at the same pace as you.By LYDIA KIESLINGIn one episode of “The Office,” Michael Scott (played by Steve Carell) puts together a video called “Lazy Scranton” to welcome new employees to his branch. In keeping with his character’s genius for mangling pop-culture references, the video is Michael’s misguided stab at parodying the viral “S.N.L.” digital short “Lazy Sunday,” wherein Andy Samberg and Chris Parnell rap about getting cupcakes and going to see “The Chronicles of Narnia.” Michael’s version, which includes lines like “Call poison control if you’re bit by a spider/But check that it’s covered by your health care provider!” leaves the new employees stone-faced. When one of them quits, Michael pleads with him. “Didn’t you think ‘Lazy Scranton’ was funny?” “No,” the employee says. “Was it supposed to be funny?”I thought about this moment when I heard “Can’t Knock the Hustle,” a song Weezer released late last year. The track, a reimagining of Jay-Z’s song by the same title, is the marquee single from the band’s “Black Album.” I first heard Weezer’s version while driving a car, and I almost had to pull over. “What is happening?” I asked.The Jay-Z original is about selling drugs, with lines like “At my arraignment screaming/All us blacks got is sports and entertainment, until we even/Thieving, as long as I’m breathing,” with a chorus sung by Mary J. Blige. The Weezer interpretation is about the gig economy and unspools in painfully dorky lines like “I’m an ugly [expletive] but I work hella harder/And you can write a blog about it” and “Leave a five-star review and I’ll leave you one too.” The song is unnervingly, relentlessly bouncy. In the video, Pete Wentz of Fall Out Boy plays a beleaguered ride-share driver. “What is happening?” his face seems to say.Earlier this year, the band released an album of actual covers (“No Scrubs,” “Paranoid” and “Africa,” among others), none of which had the overwhelmingly depressing effect of “Can’t Knock the Hustle.” What is happening with this song? There’s the peculiar comic engagement with the desperate race to the bottom for American employers. There’s the white appropriation of black art, a refraction of hip-hop tropes that is about one thousand times less successful than “Lazy Sunday” (possibly even “Lazy Scranton”). And there’s the growing-old phenomenon of seeing former heroes make choices you don’t understand, in a way that makes you grapple with all your own previous choices.I have to acknowledge that I may be taking “Can’t Knock the Hustle” personally to an unreasonable degree. Weezer is a band with a fanatical but divided fan base, much of which believes that the band went downhill after its second album, “Pinkerton” (there’s even an “S.N.L.” skit about this schism). I’m a Weezer fan who considers her soul to have been irrevocably altered by “The Blue Album,” the band’s first, which was big guitars, big harmonization, big falsettos, big emotions. It can still conjure sense memories of decades past — windows down, crooning out into the forgiving dusk. Then there was “Pinkerton,” which had, in addition to its big guitars and emotions, big weirdness about gender and race. I look back on my 18-year-old self belting out lines like “You are 18-year-old girl who live in small city of Japan,” and have, if not regrets, questions. “Pinkerton” now seems like a raw, risky, sometimes repellent work of art, but one that earned its place in the age-old conversation about what is permitted by the artist.“Can’t Knock the Hustle,” on the other hand, sounds like an insincere effort to start a conversation that nobody wants to have, or at least that nobody wants to have with Weezer. The band’s recent spate of covers, even the ones that rise to the level of “fun curiosity,” feel like another race to the bottom in a cultural economy where attention matters more than anything else. (“Was it supposed to be funny?” I hear the new employee ask.)It’s not Weezer’s fault that I can’t let go of the past, but getting older is hard enough without Weezer making you feel it so acutely. “Can’t Knock the Hustle” fills me with a vague, general regret and an apprehension for what’s to come. As the song itself portends: “The future’s so bright I gotta poke my eyes out.”Lydia Kiesling is the author of the novel “The Golden State.”What do you do when you can’t put off the future any more?By RYAN BRADLEYA few years ago, Sharon Van Etten was interviewing another musician — Mimi Parker, from the band Low — on the NPR program “All Songs Considered.” Van Etten, then in her mid-30s, was thinking about having a kid and wanted to ask Parker, a mother of two, about what it would be like to be a mom and a touring musician at the same time.“My music is the center of my world,” Van Etten said while setting up a very big question: How does someone — anyone, but especially an artist — make room in her life for her work, when her work might no longer be the center of her world?“You just figure it out,” Parker answered.In the years that followed, Van Etten fell in love, pulled back from touring, enrolled in school to study psychology, was cast for an acting part in the Netflix show “The OA,” wrote a movie score, gave birth (a boy, now 2) — and in January released a new album, her first since 2014.The album’s title — “Remind Me Tomorrow” — comes from an Apple computer software-update alert option that Van Etten found herself selecting again and again, a perpetual prompt for something she needed to do and never quite got done. It’s a tidy summation of motherhood and artistry and the process of figuring them out, often at the same time, because, well, a lot of the figuring out seems to be figuring out what can wait until tomorrow.[Read about the many lives of Sharon Van Etten.]The album’s cover is another reflection of (or on) this conflict: a photo of a room with two toddlers in it, their stuff — toys, clothing, everything — spilled out around them. The image comes from the filmmaker Katherine Dieckmann. (It was Dieckmann’s film “Strange Weather” that Van Etten scored.) Those are Dieckmann’s kids amid the chaos. Van Etten recalled in a Vanity Fair interview that when she told Dieckmann she was pregnant and worried about how she was going to make motherhood work, Dieckmann pulled out her phone and pulled up the photo. “You’ll figure it out,” she said.“Remind Me Tomorrow” is about all the stuff that can’t be KonMari’d out of existence: life, love, the figuring, the delaying, and the fact that eventually, one day, but probably not today, the time will come to finally do the all those things the “remind me tomorrow” prompts had so imperfectly kept at bay.The standout track, the song you want to raise up your fists and loosen your hips to, is “Comeback Kid.” It’s driving, then sweet, and it’s very stripped down. Every minor variation of the refrain seems to offer a new perspective. Sometimes when she sings it, Van Etten seems to be talking to an earlier version of herself, “Come back, kid!” Other times, she’s talking about someone who is definitely not her: the comeback kid. In the video, Van Etten stands singing as old photos are projected onto her face and body and the wall behind her. The photos are from Van Etten’s past, but there’s very little that’s specific about them. They just look like the past in general. Which is probably the point: The past can be both particular and general, as her decision to use cover art featuring someone else’s kids might indicate.“Comeback Kid” is a song about glancing at our past selves while dealing with the whole jumble of conflicting emotions that looking too closely at our past might dredge up. But mostly, it’s about the looking itself. It’s the looking that’s important. The world shifts; you look at the past; you look at the future. And then what do you do? You figure it out.Ryan Bradley is a writer in Los Angeles.A saxophone, a tuba and two drum kits combine to create a piece of music that somehow captures the whole history of jazz.By MARK RICHARDSONListen closely to the third track from the 2018 studio album “Your Queen Is a Reptile,” by the London jazz outfit Sons of Kemet, and you will hear a tenor saxophone, a tuba and two drummers, all moving at great speed. The whole operation sounds like four people piled into a wagon tumbling down a hill, just barely in control. Each element contributes equally. Because the bass comes from an instrument powered by breath, the darting low end is less of a woofer-pumping presence and more of a song-within-a-song, a melody that you can hum on its own. The saxophone shouts back, offering growling rhythmic lines with just a pinch of melody. And the dueling drummers build one intensely syncopated beat from parts of several — the foundational Caribbean rhythm of the Cuban tresillo, martial snare rolls, pinging metallic percussion reminiscent of the roaring Afrobeat of Fela Kuti. Listen without knowing another thing about it, and this is a viscerally overwhelming piece of music.Widen the focus, though, and you will learn that the song is called “My Queen Is Harriet Tubman,” and that each song title on the album references a heroic black woman who has inspired the band’s leader, the London-born, Barbados-raised saxophone player Shabaka Hutchings. Maybe that knowledge gives the burning intensity of the song — its feeling of joy streaked with struggle — a new dimension. Pull back further and take in Hutchings’s place as a central figure of one of this era’s most remarkable music scenes, sometimes called New London Jazz — an approach that incorporates sounds and styles from all over the African diaspora, along with locally sourced ingredients from the British electronic underground. Let even more into the frame — say, that Hutchings has performed with the Sun Ra Arkestra and is now signed to Impulse!, the imprint that issued major works from artists including John Coltrane, Alice Coltrane and Pharoah Sanders — and then listen again to situate this music within the entire sweep of recorded jazz over the last 100 years.All this history is carried inside the song and transmitted by these master musicians thorough their instruments. It’s a sax, a tuba and two drum kits. It’s a tune and an unforgettable beat. It’s a call to action and a command to find the dance floor. It’s a deeply political piece of music that says a great deal without uttering a word. It’s music of this exact moment, built from sounds that have bounced back and forth across the Atlantic over centuries. Sounds that landed here, in a song honoring a woman whose face will, perhaps, on some future Sons of Kemet tour across the United States, be found on a $20 bill in Hutchings’s pocket, a queen’s visage replacing that of the dead president so admired by the current one.Mark Richardson is the former executive editor of Pitchfork and a writer and an editor in Brooklyn.Advertisement"
0
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. The Saudi crown prince is caught on a U.S. intercept, Jeff Bezos accuses a tabloid company of blackmail and France pulls its ambassador from Italy. Here’s the latest: A U.S. intelligence intercept indicates that Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman considered killing Jamal Khashoggi more than a year before Saudi operatives strangled the dissident journalist at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul in October, then dismembered his body.In 2017, the crown prince told a top aide that he would use “a bullet” on Mr. Khashoggi if he did not return to the kingdom and stop criticizing it, according to current and former American officials. Details: The conversation appears to have been recently transcribed as part of an effort to find proof of who was responsible for Mr. Khashoggi’s death. The crown prince tells the aide that Mr. Khashoggi, who became a Washington Post columnist around the same time, should be lured back to Saudi Arabia or returned by force, and if that failed, he would go after him “with a bullet.” The C.I.A. has concluded that the crown prince ordered the killing, but President Trump has downplayed the evidence of his role. Another angle: A U.N. human rights investigator has concluded that Saudi Arabia deliberately impeded an investigation of the killing. Mr. Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive and the world’s richest man, said the owner of The National Enquirer had tried “extortion and blackmail” to stop Mr. Bezos from investigating how text messages and photos exposing his extramarital affair were leaked to the tabloid.The allegations: Mr. Bezos said intermediaries for David Pecker, chairman of American Media Inc., which owns The Enquirer, warned that if Mr. Bezos did not cease his inquiries, the company would publish explicit photos it had obtained. Mr. Bezos, the owner of The Washington Post and a critic of President Trump, asserted that A.M.I. had wanted him to stop looking into the matter for political reasons. He pointed to the publisher’s past cooperation with Mr. Trump and its connections to the Saudi government. The evidence: Mr. Bezos released email correspondence in which A.M.I. said it would hold back the compromising photos if Mr. Bezos stopped his investigation and publicly said that he did not think the exposure of his affair had been “influenced by political forces.”Quote: Rather than give in to blackmail, “I prefer to stand up, roll this log over and see what crawls out,” Mr. Bezos wrote in an extraordinary blog post. Prime Minister Theresa May’s talks in Brussels, aimed at reopening the 585-page withdrawal agreement with the E.U., were predictably inconclusive. But the president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, agreed to meet again by the end of the month.Of note: A new report from the Bank of England said that Britain faces its slowest growth in 10 years in 2019, warning of tensions caused by “the fog of Brexit.”Go deeper: If no agreement is reached by March 29, Britain will crash out of the E.U., which experts have said would have disastrous consequences not just for its own economy but for other members of the bloc.Another angle: One talk radio host has taken it on himself to fight Brexit supporters every day. He might not have changed many minds, but his show has made him famous. In the 1990s, a series of private reports and studies found that Roman Catholic nuns were being sexually abused by priests or bishops. But only now is the issue seeing the light of day, after Pope Francis acknowledged the problem this week.Details: In 1994, a multiyear, 23-nation survey found that the sexual abuse of nuns by priests or bishops was rampant in some African countries. In 1998, another report confirmed those findings and said that “even rape of sisters” was common. And the problem has persisted around the world. Why did a reckoning take so long? The abuse of nuns has been overshadowed by other scandals in the Roman Catholic Church, and there have been systematic efforts to silence accusers, Laurie Goodstein, who has covered the church for decades for The Times, said on our podcast “The Daily.”France: In an extraordinary rupture between two increasingly antagonistic founding members of the E.U., France recalled its ambassador to Italy after the Italian deputy prime minister, Luigi Di Maio, a populist leader, met near Paris with a Yellow Vest organizer who has called for French civil war.Russia investigation: Federal prosecutors told a judge that Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, may have lied to them about “an extremely sensitive issue” in hopes of increasing his chances of getting a pardon from the president.Emiliano Sala: The British authorities said the body of the Argentine soccer striker was recovered from the wreckage of a small plane that went down in the English Channel last month.Carlos Ghosn: Renault, the French automaker, said that its former chairman and chief executive, jailed in Tokyo since November, may have used company funds to finance a Marie Antoinette-themed personal party at the Palace of Versailles, and that it had notified France’s judicial authorities.U.S. Supreme Court: The justices blocked, by 5-4, a law that could have left the state of Louisiana with only one abortion provider.Racism: Gucci and Adidas apologized and pulled products that were widely criticized as racist, amid a scandal over blackface that now threatens both Republicans and Democrats in the state of Virginia. We examined the long, disturbing history of blackface in America, which goes back to the dawn of the country’s popular culture. Venezuela: The military blockaded a major highway to prevent opposition leaders from trucking in food and medicine via Colombia.“Green New Deal”: In the U.S., House Democrats introduced a resolution calling for an enormous stimulus package around climate change, which includes a proposal to generate 100 percent of America’s electricity from renewable sources within the next decade. Democrats also made moves to obtain President Trump’s tax returns. Russia: Scorn for former President Boris Yeltsin and his era from the current Kremlin’s cheerleaders has brought edgy appeal to the Boris Yeltsin Presidential Center, a shimmering, contrarian shrine on the border of Siberia. Racing against climate change: A Dutch speedskating race has survived by relocating to Austria, where thick ice still beckons, for now.Children’s screen time: Doctors in Britain advised parents to keep children’s bedrooms and meals screen-free to reduce the negative effects of social media and technology exposure.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Give cauliflower the Buffalo wing treatment.A drugstore, free Wi-Fi and an A.T.M. are essentials when you set foot in a new city.You can reject an online suitor without ghosting. Just assert your disinterest.On Saturday, Boeing’s 747, arguably the most iconic jet ever, celebrates the 50th anniversary of its first flight. Commercial service started within a year.While the jumbo jets are slowly being retired by many airlines in favor of more fuel-efficient planes, the 747 still has at least a few years left in regular passenger service with many international carriers.Nowadays, cost-conscious airlines try to cram as many passengers onto their planes as they can, but competition was different in the heyday of the 747. The goal then was to give passengers space and luxury. American Airlines even put a piano bar in coach.Pilots love to fly “the Queen of the Skies,” and crews feel a special connection to it, according to Joe Kannapell, a retired 747 captain (who happens to be the briefings editor’s brother).“There’s an intimacy and a fraternity aspect that no other fleet ever had,” he said.Zach Wichter wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Jim Rutenberg and Karen WeiseThe richest man on earth accused the nation’s leading supermarket tabloid publisher of “extortion and blackmail” on Thursday, laying out a theory that brought together international intrigue, White House politics, nude photos and amorous text messages.Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon and the owner of The Washington Post, made his accusations against American Media Inc., the company behind The National Enquirer, in a lengthy post on the online platform Medium. Last month, The Enquirer published an exposé of Mr. Bezos’ extramarital affair with Lauren Sanchez, a former host of the Fox show “So You Think You Can Dance.”The headline of Mr. Bezos’ post — “No thank you, Mr. Pecker” — targeted David J. Pecker, the head of the tabloid company. In the sometimes digressive text that followed, he accused American Media of threatening to publish graphic photographs of Mr. Bezos, including a “below-the-belt selfie,” if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not motivated by political concerns.“Well, that got my attention,” Mr. Bezos wrote of the threat. “But not in the way they likely hoped.”The inciting event in this battle of American titans was the Jan. 28 edition of The Enquirer, which hit supermarket racks on Jan. 10, one day after Mr. Bezos and his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie, announced that they would be getting a divorce. The tabloid devoted 11 pages to the story of Mr. Bezos’ affair with Ms. Sanchez, calling it “the biggest investigation in Enquirer history!”[Who Is MacKenzie Bezos? Her divorce has made the novelist, and her private life, a public fascination.]The Enquirer boasted that it had tracked the couple “across five states and 40,000 miles,” furtively observing them as they boarded private jets, rode in limousines and repaired to “five-star hotel hideaways.” The article was illustrated with paparazzi shots of the unwitting couple as they stepped onto a tarmac and arrived together at what the tabloid called “their beachfront love nest in Santa Monica.”The tabloid also published amorous text messages that Mr. Bezos had sent to Ms. Sanchez. “I am crazy about you,” he wrote, according to The Enquirer. “All of you.”Tech executives are not the usual subjects of Enquirer covers, and the story set off speculation in Washington and New York media circles that the tabloid’s aggressive coverage of Mr. Bezos was tied to the closeness of Mr. Pecker, The Enquirer’s chief, and the White House. That alliance came fully to light last year in the legal drama involving hush payments to women alleging affairs with Mr. Trump.[Our media columnist examined the unlikely power of The National Enquirer in December.]Mr. Trump and Mr. Pecker were longtime friends — but the relationship between the two was said to be frayed in recent months, when American Media’s leadership entered into a deal with federal prosecutors looking into the company’s role in the hush payments made during the 2016 presidential campaign. Mr. Pecker and his associates had helped orchestrate the deals involving two women who alleged past affairs with Mr. Trump in “catch and kill” deals: the former Playboy model Karen McDougal and the porn star Stormy Daniels.After The Enquirer made his private life public, giving Twitter wags and late-night hosts the chance to weigh in on his high-flown texting style, Mr. Bezos sprang into action, starting his own investigation of the tabloid’s motives and how it had come to possess his texts to Ms. Sanchez.The Amazon founder, who at last count was worth $136 billion, suggested that he would spare no expense in taking the fight to the tabloid publisher. Leading the investigation was Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ longtime security chief, whom Mr. Bezos said he had instructed “to proceed with whatever budget he needed to pursue the facts in this matter.”It was a bold move for someone who has often tried to evade the spotlight, even amid the frequent insults hurled his way by Mr. Trump, who has labeled the newspaper that Mr. Bezos purchased in 2013 as “The Amazon Post” and recently called him “Jeff Bozo” in a tweet.[Mr. de Becker has advised celebrities on threats for decades.]Mr. de Becker confirmed to The Daily Beast on Jan. 31 that he was leading the investigation into the matter of how the Enquirer had obtained the text messages. Not long afterward, The Post prepared an article exploring competing theories about the motivation behind the publication of the tawdry tale.American Media made the next move, offering Mr. Bezos an offer that it wrongly assumed he could not refuse. And if he did say no? A future issue of The Enquirer would make him very unhappy, with the selfies and more of the steamy texts it had apparently obtained.“Of course I don’t want personal photos published, but I also won’t participate in their well-known practice of blackmail, political favors, political attacks and corruption,” Mr. Bezos wrote. “I prefer to stand up, roll this log over and see what crawls out.”Amazon declined to comment.Mr. Bezos’ allegations placed new pressure on American Media, which narrowly emerged from the campaign finance prosecution without being charged.On Friday morning, the company said in a statement that although it stood by its actions, for now, its board was starting an investigation into the matter.“American Media believes fervently that it acted lawfully in the reporting of the story of Mr. Bezos,” the statement said. “Nonetheless, in light of the nature of the allegations published by Mr. Bezos, the Board has convened and determined that it should promptly and thoroughly investigate the claims. Upon completion of that investigation, the Board will take whatever appropriate action is necessary.”The statement was certain to intensify speculation around the future of Mr. Pecker and his top news executive, Dylan Howard.But American Media is privately held, and its board has been steadfast in its loyalty to Mr. Pecker through the most tumultuous year of his tenure with the company. The board made no statements and took no action to investigate American Media’s role in acting as an arm of Mr. Trump’s campaign, even after the company signed a non-prosecution agreement with the authorities.The board consists of two partners from Chatham Asset Management, a financial backer of the company, and David R. Hughes, the former chief financial officer of Trump Entertainment Resorts.By using Medium to reveal The Enquirer’s backstage maneuvers, Mr. Bezos — one of the world’s most powerful tech titans and the owner of one of the country’s most influential newspapers — showed the best means of communications can be a simple blog post.[Read excerpts from Mr. Bezos’ blog post.]Sometimes rambling — while also showing the occasional flair of tabloid columnists of yore — the Bezos post pulled together random strands of the yearlong legal drama involving the president, American Media and the allegedly illegal payments to women.That federal inquiry resulted in a guilty plea from Mr. Trump’s former attorney and fixer, Michael D. Cohen, who said he had paid Ms. Daniels $130,000 and asked American Media to pay Ms. McDougal $150,000 at the president’s direction, to protect his election prospects.Federal prosecutors with the Southern District of New York determined that the American Media payment was an illegal corporate contribution. Because the company cooperated with prosecutors, the authorities did not bring charges. But they made American Media sign onto a non-prosecution agreement, in which it affirmed that it had made the payment to “influence the election.”That agreement, signed in September, stipulated that A.M.I. “shall commit no crimes whatsoever” for three years, and that if it did, “A.M.I. shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which this office has knowledge.”If American Media’s threat to publish the personal photos of Mr. Bezos is determined to have been criminal, it would find its deal with federal prosecutors in jeopardy.“One thing we can be certain of is these allegations will be looked at hard by the federal prosecutors,” said Jeff Tsai, a former federal prosecutor. “The nature of that non-prosecution agreement — to not commit any crimes — was to give A.M.I. the opportunity to really think hard about the nature of its practices.”He added, “You can sometimes get a pass from federal prosecutors; it’s much harder to get two passes.”The agreement put American Media, Mr. Pecker and Mr. Howard at odds with Mr. Trump, which served to tamp down speculation that the Enquirer had somehow pursued the Bezos story in alliance with the president and his allies.On Feb. 5, though, that possibility surfaced in The Post. Mr. de Becker told the paper that the Enquirer story had begun with a “politically motivated’’ leak. Mr. de Becker has served as a protector to Olivia Newton-John, Michael J. Fox and friends and family of Ronald Reagan. He declined to comment.American Media appeared to warn Mr. Bezos away from raising any political speculation in an email to Mr. de Becker’s attorney, which he shared on Medium. In the letter, which he quoted in full, a lawyer for the company, Jon Fine, demanded that Mr. Bezos state publicly that he had “no knowledge or basis for suggesting that” American Media’s “coverage was politically motivated or influenced by political forces.” Mr. Fine has worked as a lawyer at Amazon.In his post Mr. Bezos also appeared to imply that the tabloid company was doing the bidding of Saudi Arabia, quoting from a New York Times report last year: “After Mr. Trump became president, he rewarded Mr. Pecker’s loyalty with a White House dinner to which the media executive brought a guest with important ties to the royals in Saudi Arabia. At the time, Mr. Pecker was pursuing business there while also hunting for financing for acquisitions.”The Post has been reporting determinedly on intelligence assessments that the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, ordered the grisly murder of the Saudi dissident — and Post global opinion contributor — Jamal Khashoggi.Follow Jim Rutenberg and Karen Weise on Twitter: @jimrutenberg and @KYWeise.Edmund Lee, Patricia Cohen and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.OpinionKara SwisherAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a Supreme Court decision on an abortion law, a dispute between Jeff Bezos and the owner of The National Enquirer, and the obituary for Frank Robinson, the first black manager in Major League Baseball.The justices voted 5 to 4 on Thursday to grant a temporary stay on a Louisiana law that opponents said could have left the state with only one authorized abortion provider.Chief Justice John Roberts joined the court’s four-member liberal wing in the majority, highlighting the pivotal position he has assumed after last year’s departure of Justice Anthony Kennedy. Justice Kennedy was often the swing vote in closely divided cases.The details: The Louisiana law requires doctors who perform abortions to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals. A federal court judge struck down the law in 2017, saying it created an undue burden on women’s constitutional right to abortion. That decision was later reversed. What’s next: The court’s action on Thursday did not end the case, and the justices are likely to hear a challenge to the law on the merits in its next term, which starts in October. The court struck down a similar law in Texas in 2016.Related: Lawmakers in several states have recently been working on legislation that either protects abortion or makes it illegal, in the event that a conservative-leaning Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade, the 1973 ruling that made abortion legal nationwide.Mr. Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive and the world’s richest man, said on Thursday that the owner of The National Enquirer had tried “extortion and blackmail” to stop him investigating how material exposing his extramarital affair was leaked to the tabloid.In an online post, Mr. Bezos accused American Media Inc. of threatening to publish explicit photos, including a “below the belt selfie,” if he didn’t affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not politically motivated. Mr. Bezos mentioned his ownership of The Washington Post. American Media’s owner, David Pecker, is a friend of President Trump, who has criticized The Post.Catch up: Mr. Bezos and his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie, announced last month that they would be getting a divorce, a day before the tabloid published an 11-page story about his affair with Lauren Sanchez, a TV personality.Excerpts: “If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion, how many people can?” Mr. Bezos wrote. The State Senate’s top Republican faced questions on Thursday about racist photographs and slurs in a college yearbook that he helped oversee, adding a bipartisan angle to the nearly weeklong crisis over the conduct of the state’s top elected officials.The Republican lawmaker, Thomas Norment, pointed out that he did not take or appear in any of the images of students in blackface in the 1968 yearbook. Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark Herring, both Democrats, have admitted wearing blackface in the 1980s.Separately, several prominent Democrats called for an investigation into a woman’s accusation that Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax had sexually assaulted her in 2004.Go deeper: The controversy has reinforced that blackface, with its roots in demeaning minstrel-show traditions that date to the 1830s, has never gone away.The Daily: On today’s episode, we discuss how the situation in Virginia is testing Democrats’ policy of zero tolerance for misconduct by members of their party.Mohammed bin Salman, the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, spoke about killing Jamal Khashoggi long before he was strangled and dismembered by Saudi agents in October, in a conversation intercepted by U.S. intelligence agencies.Prince Mohammed told an aide in September 2017 that he would go after Mr. Khashoggi “with a bullet” if the columnist for The Washington Post didn’t return to the kingdom and end his criticism of the Saudi government.Why it matters: The Saudi government has denied that Prince Mohammed, the de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia, played any role in the killing. He has also been defended by President Trump.The first surfing contest to offer equal cash prizes for men and women took place in November at a spot called Jaws, off the Hawaiian island of Maui, where in the right conditions the waves can run 40 or 50 feet, or higher. This is the story of how women broke into big-wave surfing, one of the most dangerous sports in the world, and their battles to win access to the top echelon of competition. Deadly fire in Brazil: At least 10 people were killed today in a fire at a dormitory for young players at a training center for a professional soccer team in Rio de Janeiro, firefighters and club officials said.“Green New Deal”: House Democrats on Thursday introduced a sweeping resolution calling for the U.S. to eliminate additional carbon emissions by 2030. But Speaker Nancy Pelosi has no plans to bring it to a vote in its current form.Bank merger: A $28 billion deal between BB&T and SunTrust would, if approved, be the industry’s biggest merger in a decade, creating the sixth-largest bank in the U.S.Justice Dept. leader to testify: The acting attorney general, Matthew Whitaker, is scheduled to appear before a House panel today to discuss the special counsel’s Russia investigation after receiving an assurance that he would not be subpoenaed.Strains in Europe: France recalled its ambassador from Rome after an Italian official met with a leader of the “Yellow Vest” protests against the French government.Snapshot: Above, a dog backstage at the 16th annual New York Pet Fashion Show on Thursday.In memoriam: Frank Robinson, a Hall of Fame outfielder, became the first black manager in Major League Baseball, in 1975. He died on Thursday at 83.John Dingell, a Michigan Democrat, served in Congress for a record 59 years. He died on Thursday at 92.Grammys on Sunday: The musical awards show has made a series of changes in the past year to address a lack of diversity. But there is no guarantee that new nominees will win — or that big names will show up.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Late-night comedy: President Trump has said that Democrats’ investigations are “presidential harassment.” “Yes, presidential harassment,” Stephen Colbert said. “It’s like sexual harassment, only Republicans take it seriously.”What we’re reading: This essay, published by the Modern War Institute at West Point. Lauren Katzenberg, our At War editor, says, “An Army captain, Micah Ables, makes the case for why servicewomen are needed in combat units in a thoughtful rebuttal to a Wall Street Journal op-ed that argued against Obama-era gender integration policies.”Cook: Give cauliflower the Buffalo wing treatment.Watch: “If Beale Street Could Talk” and then see how it shows a New York City that no longer exists.See: In the Coachella Valley, visit the Desert X exhibition, which has various installations, including a drive-in movie theater screening only one film.Read: Un-su Kim’s “The Plotters,” about a Korean assassin, is one of nine new books we recommend this week. Smarter Living: When buying off-season produce, be skeptical of anything that’s perishable but super fresh. While transportation accounts for only about 6 percent of the world’s food-related greenhouse gas emissions, not all modes of travel are equal. Anything moved by air, like fresh blackberries or asparagus from South America, is going to create a lot of carbon.Also, you can reject an online suitor without ghosting. Just assert that you’re not interested.On Saturday, the Boeing 747, perhaps the world’s most recognizable jet, celebrates the 50th anniversary of its first flight. Commercial service started within a year.While the jumbo jets are slowly being retired by many airlines in favor of more fuel-efficient planes, the 747 still has at least a few years left in regular passenger service with many international carriers.Nowadays, cost-conscious airlines try to cram as many passengers into their planes as they can, but competition was different in the heyday of the 747. The goal then was to give passengers space and luxury. American Airlines even put a piano bar in coach.Pilots love to fly “the Queen of the Skies,” and crews feel a special connection to it, according to Joe Kannapell, a retired 747 captain (who happens to be the briefings editor’s brother).“There’s an intimacy and a fraternity aspect that no other fleet ever had,” he said.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Zach Wichter wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the leadership crisis in Virginia.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Nickname for mom’s sister (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Last year, The Times added 120 newsroom employees, bringing its total number of journalists to 1,600, the largest count in its history.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump met China’s special envoy at the White House.Before the meeting, above, Mr. Trump said that the two countries were headed toward an agreement that might be “the biggest deal ever made.” There had also been hints that a summit meeting would be announced between Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China. None was.The talks are expected to continue for weeks.And separately, a day after a Times report revealed frustrations from some investigators who have said the attorney general failed to adequately portray their findings, the department defended William Barr’s handling of the special counsel’s report, saying that it had to be scrubbed of sensitive information._____2. President Trump made a jab at Joe Biden for putting his hands on women’s shoulders.The 15-second meme, accompanied by the text “WELCOME BACK JOE!,” doctored the video Mr. Biden released, explaining his history of physical contact with women. (By the way, there’s science behind the idea of personal space.)In other news from Washington, the House defied the National Rifle Association and passed a domestic violence bill that could block gun sales to abusive intimate partners.Lawmakers also voted to end U.S. military aid for Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen. President Trump is expected to veto the measure._____3. Boeing has insisted that the policies for responding to trouble in the 737 Max 8 were sound, but a preliminary report by Ethiopian investigators raises new questions.The report shows that pilots on a doomed Ethiopian Airlines jet followed Boeing’s safety protocol, to no avail. Above, the cockpit of a 737 Max 8.Trouble started just two minutes after takeoff. The pilots performed actions on the emergency checklist, including cutting off electricity to an automatic system that was pushing the nose down. But four minutes later, the plane went into a fatal dive that killed all 157 people onboard._____4. Looking ahead to Friday’s jobs report:American manufacturers have added nearly half a million jobs since President Trump took office. Now, the surge may be nearing its end. Above, the assembly area at Gradall Industries in New Philadelphia, Ohio.Tariffs are driving up manufacturing costs; cooling growth in China and Europe is hurting demand for exports; and the effects of tax cuts and government spending increases are waning.Meanwhile, U.S. builders and farmers are only getting more short-handed. One of our economics reporters breaks down the strains of what could be an enduring labor crunch because of a drought of immigrant labor, and another examines whether targeted immigration might be a solution._____5. Emotions are running high among Mormons.The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, whose Salt Lake Temple is pictured above, now says it will allow children of same-sex parents to be baptized, a stunning reversal of church doctrine.“It felt so incongruous with the teachings of Jesus,” said one mother who cried in relief. “He said, Let the children come unto me, and forbid them not.”In addition to the church’s reversal on important religious practices like baptisms, it will also no longer label those in same-sex marriages as apostates._____6. The Australian man accused of carrying out the terrorist attack in Christchurch, New Zealand, will be charged with 50 counts of murder in a court appearance within hours of this writing.A Times analysis shows that attacks by white supremacists are increasing, and so are the connections between them. We found that perpetrators of the deadliest attacks engaged with extremist content online, and many of the attacks, like those at two mosques last month, above, were inspired by earlier attacks.That’s not the only extremism on the rise: Anti-Semitism is, too, in a range of ideologies that normally don’t overlap. That fusion is new, and dangerous, experts say._____7. The divorce plans of the richest man in the world have been finalized.Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, will keep 75 percent of the couple’s stock in Amazon and all of their ownership of The Washington Post and the Blue Origin space company.After the divorce, Mackenzie Bezos, pictured above with her soon-to-be-ex in 2017, will own roughly 4 percent of Amazon, a stake worth almost $36 billion. Mr. Bezos will have “sole voting authority” over her shares. Ms. Bezos, who has long kept a low profile, wrote on Twitter that she was “excited about my own plans.”_____8. When was the last time you read a book from Poland, Sweden, Mexico or Iraq?Our Globetrotting column, a preview of books from around the world, has been updated with 76 new titles to our already growing list of 189 books. We also have a profile of the British-Palestinian writer Isabella Hammad, whose debut novel, “The Parisian,” gives a sweeping history of the 20th century through the lens of Palestinians.And our reviewer found “Solitary” by Albert Woodfox, who survived more than 40 years in solitary confinement, to be a remarkable testament of suffering and self-transformation._____9. A hairbrush against the scalp. Peeling dried glue. The television painter Bob Ross.All have given rise to autonomous sensory meridian response, better known as A.S.M.R. and sometimes described as a brain-gasm. The brain-tingling feeling was a hard-to-describe psychological oddity. Until, suddenly, it was a YouTube phenomenon.FYI, the science behind the sensation is lagging._____10. Finally, a breakout from whale jail.Russia is preparing to release an unprecedented number of whales, seized to keep them from being exported to Chinese marine parks. A hundred have been kept in watery pens until the plan for their release could be developed.It took the help of two famous ocean experts, Jean-Michel Cousteau (the son of the famed oceanographer) and Charles Vinick.“Each animal is an individual and has to be treated like an individual,” said Mr. Vinick. “Like us!” said Mr. Cousteau.Have a liberating evening._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, predatory lenders get a boost, and President Trump won’t meet with his counterpart in China — yet.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Are you a Valentine’s Day person? If not, welcome to a growing club of detractors. Only 51 percent of Americans plan to celebrate the “holiday” in 2019, according to the National Retail Federation, marking a 12-year downward trend. But if you are an observer, how nice — for your loved ones. Retailers are expecting you to spend a record amount on presents this season (an average of $161.96, up 13 percent from 2018). At least you die-hard romantics are making up for the rest of us. Speaking of gifts, here’s mine to you: All you need to know about the latest business and tech news, gathered into one email that’ll set you up for the week ahead. Chocolates sold separately.FEB. 3-9Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive and the wealthiest man in the world, accused the owner of The National Enquirer on Thursday of attempting to extort and blackmail him by using racy photos that Mr. Bezos had texted with his girlfriend, the former television host Lauren Sanchez. In a candid blog post, Mr. Bezos pasted emails from the tabloid’s representatives who threatened to release the images if he did not stop investigating how they had obtained his texts. “Of course I don’t want personal photos published, but I also won’t participate in their well-known practice of blackmail, political favors, political attacks and corruption,” Mr. Bezos wrote. If you’ve ever considered going into crippling debt, the government just made it easier to do so. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said on Wednesday that it planned to eliminate Obama-era rules that protect consumers from taking on bigger loans than they can handle. Under the proposal, lenders would be able to grant high-interest payday loans (short-term loans intended to tide people over until their next paycheck) without making sure consumers can actually pay them off. And those lenders would be allowed to do so repeatedly, contributing to a cycle where borrowers spin into ballooning debt. The agency said its policy would give people more access to credit. But critics say it will help predatory lenders take advantage of people who already can’t make ends meet. It’s not just your imagination — the past five years have been the hottest on record in Earth’s history, according to data from NASA. The report set the stage for liberal Democrats to unveil their Green New Deal on Thursday, a proposal for sweeping changes that would make the United States carbon neutral by 2030 and create millions of “green jobs” in the process. The measure was drafted by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, and it won’t go anywhere for now — Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has no plans to bring it for a vote. Either way, it’s a bold rallying cry, and may gain steam going into the 2020 elections. FEB. 10-16As the economy recovers from the government’s longest shutdown in history (and will be recuperating for some time), Congress is working to prevent another one starting after midnight on Friday. That’s the deadline for Mr. Trump to strike an agreement with lawmakers on a new spending bill that will keep the lights on at federal agencies. Mr. Trump continues to insist on funding for a border wall, but is showing some signs of willingness to compromise. Speaker Pelosi says she’s aiming for “good news in a short period of time.” Are you sick of hearing about the costly trade dispute between the United States and China? Me, too. But this week could be the beginning of the end of it — or, at least Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin seems to hope so. He’s traveling to Beijing with other American officials to continue talks that started in Washington in January. If the two sides can’t hammer out a resolution before March 2, the Trump administration will raise punishing tariffs on Chinese goods, hurting businesses and consumers in both countries (and others). For his own part, Mr. Trump said it was unlikely that he would sit down with President Xi Jinping of China before the deadline. The monetary repercussions of Britain’s chaotic withdrawal from the European Union keep piling up. Last year, the country experienced its slowest economic growth in a decade, according to a new report from the Bank of England that, predictably, attributed the slump to the “fog of Brexit.” Those clouds will probably stick around this week as Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain continues her dogged efforts to patch up the tattered proposal. European leaders said they wouldn’t renegotiate the deal, but now they’re vaguely open to “talks.” Of course, the major sticking point — the border between the Irelands — remains part of the plan, so you can guess how those discussions will go. Data from pharmacies in different neighborhoods shows that rich people buy different prescription drugs than poor ones. Apple has fixed the glitch that allowed people to eavesdrop on each other’s FaceTime calls and thanked the 14-year-old who discovered it by offering to pay for his education. Instacart, which offers delivery services through an app, backed off its policy to count customers’ tips toward its workers’ minimum wages — a victory for members of the gig economy. And finally, Carlos Ghosn, the disgraced former chairman of the automaker Renault, may have spent 50,000 euros (about $57,000) on his own lavish wedding at the Palace of Versailles in 2016. You’ve got to hand it to him — it looks like a great party.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Edmund LeeJeff Bezos says owning The Washington Post is a “complexifier” for him. The newspaper could say the same about him.The paper has flourished under Mr. Bezos’ ownership. Since he bought the newspaper in 2013 for $250 million, The Post has added over 200 people to its newsroom, which now numbers 900 journalists, and won plaudits and awards for its coverage of, among other subjects, the Trump administration. The paper has more than 1.5 million digital subscribers, and the business has been profitable for the past three years.But the newsroom entered tricky editorial terrain last week when it became a factor in an apparent extortion attempt against Mr. Bezos, while also having to independently cover the events around its owner.The drama featured a litany of classic tabloid elements that would challenge any newsroom — a marriage-busting affair documented by The National Enquirer, Hollywood agents with ties to political figures, secret rendezvous at high-end hotels and sexting — let alone one whose owner sits at the center of the controversy.It was also a stark reminder that Mr. Bezos is a very public figure of great wealth and influence. He is the world’s richest person by dint of his command of Amazon, a company that is reaching further and further into the lives of everyday people, whether through its e-commerce business, its entertainment properties or its numerous warehouses around the country that employ hundreds of thousands.His personal project, Blue Origin, describes its mission as “building a road to space so our children can build the future.”With his blog post detailing his extortion allegations last week, Mr. Bezos has now also become a prominent commentator on the First Amendment. He said he was fighting back against alleged tactics that have no business in journalism, while The Enquirer claims he is merely trying to muzzle a publication because its coverage embarrassed him.The editorial page of The Post clearly sides with its owner. On Friday, the day after Mr. Bezos published his blog post, the paper published an editorial praising him for exposing an “insidious model of intimidation and corruption masquerading as journalism.”The overall situation will “test both Marty Baron and Jeff Bezos,” Kyle Pope, the editor and publisher of The Columbia Journalism Review, said in an email, referring to The Post’s executive editor. Mr. Bezos gets “good marks so far,” Mr. Pope said, but “the truth is that the rules of journalism are not baked into his bones; it’s something he’s going to have to learn, at a very stressful and trying time.”Mr. Bezos did not respond to a request for comment.The Washington Post declined to make Mr. Baron available for an interview but the paper did provide a statement from him.“Jeff has never gotten involved in our reporting or our final stories,” he said. “People surmise that it must be difficult to cover Jeff and Amazon. But we’ve gone five and a half years with his ownership, and he hasn’t once intervened in any way.”The clash between Mr. Bezos and The Enquirer began last month when the tabloid published an exposé of his extramarital affair with the television personality Lauren Sanchez. Mr. Bezos fought back in his remarkably revealing blog post on Medium, the online open platform. He accused David J. Pecker, the chairman of The Enquirer’s parent company, American Media Inc., of threatening through intermediaries to publish graphic photographs of Mr. Bezos if he did not publicly announce that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not politically motivated.The Post has traditionally focused on the nation’s capital, with not as many resources devoted to business coverage. That has started to change. The Post had previously said it would nearly double the number of journalists devoted to covering Silicon Valley to 25, including a reporter in Seattle who will focus on Amazon.It also aggressively followed up on the revelation about Mr. Bezos’ private life.The Post published a lengthy article on Feb. 5 about The Enquirer’s coverage of Mr. Bezos’ affair. It quoted Gavin de Becker, his longtime security chief, as saying the leak of evidence of Mr. Bezos’ infidelity to The Enquirer was “politically motivated,” designed to embarrass Mr. Bezos because he owns The Post. Mr. de Becker added that the effort could also involve figures from President Trump’s campaign.Emails from American Media that Mr. Bezos included in his blog post referred to the Post article and demanded that he — and the newspaper — refrain from any statements or suggestions that politics played any part in its coverage of his affair with Ms. Sanchez.Like other newspapers, including The New York Times, The Post ran front-page articles on Mr. Bezos and American Media on Friday and Saturday. Those were not the only articles about his interests. The paper also published a report about Amazon’s potentially pulling out of its agreement to build a headquarters in New York City, as well as one about a lawsuit filed against Amazon by the director Woody Allen, who said its streaming service had improperly backed out of a four-movie deal with him.“I think they’ve finally woken up to the fact that their owner is a huge story,” said Mr. Pope, who has criticized the paper’s past coverage of Amazon as anemic. With the fight between Mr. Bezos and American Media, he said, “they’ve moved into an appropriately higher gear.”Mr. Baron said the paper had not changed its approach to its coverage of Mr. Bezos or his business interests. Mr. Baron has said that he, along with other executives, talks with Mr. Bezos about “strategy” every two weeks or so, but that the discussions do not touch on the paper’s coverage. Mr. Bezos owns The Post separately from Amazon.“Because I know full well that he won’t interfere, it’s not really difficult to cover him and Amazon at all,” Mr. Baron said in his statement. “In all the years of his ownership, there hasn’t been one report of his exerting influence, explicitly or implicitly, on our coverage.”Frederick J. Ryan Jr., the publisher and chief executive of The Post, echoed those sentiments in a statement, and said Mr. Bezos had played no part in the editorial that praised his blog post.“Jeff has always made it clear that he expects The Washington Post will act with complete independence, both in our news coverage and editorials, and treat him and his companies just as we would anyone else,” Mr. Ryan wrote. “We have never wavered from that position.”Donald Graham, whose family had owned The Post for almost 80 years before he sold it to Mr. Bezos, said he was “delighted” by the editorial. “I agree with every word of it,"" he said in an email.He added, “Had they not editorialized, perhaps The Times would be doing a piece about the absence of such an editorial and what did that mean?”Bill Grueskin, a Columbia University journalism professor and a former editor at The Wall Street Journal, said it should have been made clearer to readers that Mr. Bezos had nothing to do with the editorial.“Readers deserve to know whether Bezos knew about the editorial in advance, or in any way contributed to discussions that led to it,” he said.To show that the newspaper remains independent of its owner, The Post pointed to another editorial, from early last year. That editorial warned that cities should “proceed with caution, with their eyes at least as wide open as their wallets,” when bidding to be a location for Amazon’s second headquarters.That has now become a major hometown story. Amazon recently announced that it would build a headquarters in nearby Arlington, Va., meaning it will be one of the largest employers in the region.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Jim Rutenberg, Karen Weise and William K. RashbaumJeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon and the owner of The Washington Post, did not become the world’s richest man by refusing to do what it takes to win. And now that he finds himself in a mud fight with the supermarket tabloid that exposed his extramarital affair, he is showing off the same drive that helped him turn a simple idea — selling books on the internet — into an all-purpose, $780 billion powerhouse.Mr. Bezos has risked significant personal embarrassment in taking on American Media Inc., the company that owns The National Enquirer, which last month devoted 11 pages to the tale of his extramarital affair. But with a personal fortune of more than $130 billion, he has the means to torment his tormentors. And as he showed Thursday with his surprise blog post, which accused the tabloid publisher of “extortion and blackmail,” Mr. Bezos is willing to get dirty in the pursuit of victory.He has attacked American Media right where it hurts — its shaky legal position — and the strategy is showing early signs of paying off.Federal prosecutors are reviewing Mr. Bezos’ claim that he has been extorted, according to two people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to discuss it publicly. And those prosecutors have planned a meeting with Mr. Bezos’ representatives, one of those people said.If American Media is found to have broken a law — any law — it would be in violation of a deal with federal prosecutors from the Southern District of New York. The agreement was struck in September after American Media admitted paying hush money during the 2016 presidential campaign to protect Donald J. Trump from allegations of an affair. Under the deal, the company would not be prosecuted for its Trump-related efforts as long as it stayed out of legal trouble for the next three years.Even as American Media fell into legal jeopardy last year, its board stood by the company’s chairman, David J. Pecker, and its top news executive, Dylan Howard. On Friday, however, the company announced that the board was starting an investigation of Mr. Bezos’ claims.“American Media believes fervently that it acted lawfully in the reporting of the story of Mr. Bezos,” the company said in a statement. “Nonetheless, in light of the nature of the allegations published by Mr. Bezos, the board has convened and determined that it should promptly and thoroughly investigate the claims. Upon completion of that investigation, the board will take whatever appropriate action is necessary.”[Read a primer on the players and plot points in the fight that has erupted between Mr. Bezos and American Media.]The Enquirer exposé detailed Mr. Bezos’ affair with Lauren Sanchez, a former host of the Fox show “So You Think You Can Dance.” It appeared a day after Mr. Bezos announced on Twitter that he and his wife of 25 years, the novelist MacKenzie Bezos, were getting divorced.Mr. Bezos wrote the blog post himself, according to one person close to him, who was not authorized to speak publicly, and several lawyers reviewed it before he hit publish. In the post, he said American Media had threatened to publish compromising photographs of him, including a “below the belt selfie,” if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair with Ms. Sanchez was not motivated by political concerns.“If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion, how many people can?” he wrote.At 55, Mr. Bezos has become a prominent player in Hollywood and Washington. Thanks to Amazon’s entry into the entertainment business, he is no stranger to the red carpet and Golden Globes after-parties. And with a 27,000-square-foot mansion in the capital’s Kalorama neighborhood, which he bought for $23 million three years after he acquired The Post in 2013, he is a figure to be reckoned in political circles, albeit one who suffers name calling from the president’s Twitter account.Now, in his fight, Mr. Bezos has assembled an all-star crisis-management team of protectors and lawyers who have popped up alongside powerful political figures and celebrities over the last few decades.A key team member is the veteran Hollywood lawyer Martin Singer, who is technically representing Mr. Bezos’ longtime security chief, Gavin de Becker. Mr. Singer knows exactly how American Media works, and he has not always worked on the virtuous side of the street.This is the lawyer who represented Bill Cosby in 2005, when The Enquirer was preparing an article about sexual assault allegations made against Mr. Cosby by a member of Temple University’s athletics staff, Andrea Constand. Mr. Singer persuaded the tabloid to sit on Ms. Constand’s story in return for an exclusive interview with the former prime-time star. And now he is Team Bezos.Also working on behalf of the Amazon founder is the law firm Boies Schiller Flexner. It has long represented Amazon in corporate matters, but now lawyers there are working for Mr. Bezos personally.One of them, Jonathan Sherman, previously represented American Media as it worked to squash negative stories about President Trump, according to a person familiar with the situation. Another working for Mr. Bezos, William Isaacson, represents Amazon in its corporate matters.David Boies, a partner at the firm, defended the producer Harvey Weinstein against accusations of sexual harassment and abuse. As part of his services, he helped orchestrate a smear campaign against the alleged victims of the mogul’s sexual misconduct and hired Black Cube, a private investigations firm staffed by former Israeli intelligence agents, to undercut accusers and the journalists looking into Mr. Weinstein.Another team member is Mr. de Becker, who has thwarted stalkers for stars like Olivia Newton-John and Cher and provided security for public figures visiting President Ronald Reagan and his family at the White House.Mr. de Becker is also the author of “The Gift of Fear,” a 1998 book that offers advice for dealing with threats (available on Amazon in paperback for $7.19). Concerning blackmail attempts specifically, he counseled confrontation, rather than appeasement — and it seems that Mr. Bezos followed the de Becker strategy with his blog post.“Victims often try to appease the extortionist, but these efforts just allow him to retain the underserved mantle of a decent person,” Mr. de Becker wrote. “I suggest that clients compel the extortionist to commit to his sleaziness, which puts him on the defensive.”In fighting back, Mr. Bezos is showing himself to be not unlike his no-holds-barred antagonist in the White House. And his media counteroffensive against the tabloid publisher has all the hallmarks of the opposition research campaigns that spice up election seasons.Before and after Mr. Bezos published his revealing post on the online platform Medium, various media outlets gave significant space to competing and sometimes contradictory claims about the possible motives behind American Media’s big story. All of those theories had little to do with the idea that salacious details about the private life of a famous multibillionaire would be of interest to checkout-stand impulse buyers.In an article late last month, The Daily Beast quoted Mr. de Becker as confirming that his team was looking into Michael Sanchez, the brother of Ms. Sanchez, as the potential leaker of private text messages The Enquirer published in its exposé. Mr. Sanchez denied it. As the piece noted, he is close with the Trump adviser and longtime provocateur Roger Stone, who has been indicted by the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III.Then there was Mr. Bezos’ suggestion in his Medium post that the coverage was somehow tied to American Media’s attempts to win business and possibly investment from Saudi Arabia. Mr. Bezos and his investigators had failed to offer any solid evidence for that theory — or, for that matter, any of the others.In October, American Media paid for and produced a magazine called The New Kingdom, which mysteriously appeared on newsstands ahead of a visit to the United States by the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman. The publication of this 100-page glossy, filled with laudatory text and splashy photos of the crown prince, coincided with American Media’s efforts to strike business deals in Saudi Arabia. The company has faced double-digit losses in its print circulation in recent years.Mr. Bezos has long played hardball in his business, and Amazon can wipe value off entire companies just by announcing new ventures in their industry. Only recently did Amazon start turning a consistent profit.Mr. Bezos’ aggressive stance plays out in the company’s actions in ways big and small. Last decade, a start-up called Diapers.com began gaining traction by offering free shipping to new parents. Amazon aggressively lowered its prices, undercutting the upstart.Amid the price war, it bought the company for $545 million in late 2010 and shut the site down in 2017. Amazon now captures 67 percent of all baby-related purchases online, according to the marketing analytics firm Jumpshot.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the surname of the crown prince of Saudi Arabia. He is Mohammed bin Salman, not Salmans.Ben Protess contributed reporting.OpinionMaureen DowdOpinionKara SwisherAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Laura M. HolsonThe Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and the novelist MacKenzie Bezos announced on Twitter on Wednesday that they are getting divorced after 25 years of marriage.In a statement posted on Mr. Bezos’s Twitter account, the couple said they had been separated for a long period of time, but planned to remain involved as “parents, friends, partners in ventures and projects.” According to a 1999 profile in Wired, the two met when they both worked at D.E. Shaw, a New York-based hedge fund, before moving in 1994 to Seattle, where Amazon is headquartered. They have four children.pic.twitter.com/Gb10BDb0x0As is the case in any celebrity split, the financial details of the divorce are sure to be complicated despite the couple’s vow to “remain cherished friends.” According to Forbes, which publishes an annual list of billionaires, his net worth is estimated at $137 billion and he is the richest man in the world. While much of his wealth is tied up in Amazon stock, Mr. Bezos, 54, the company’s chief executive, is also the owner of several companies, including The Washington Post and Blue Origin, a space travel company. In September, the couple pledged to donate $2 billion to start preschools and help homeless families.Ms. Bezos, 48, has written two books. In 2005, she published “The Testing of Luther Albright: A Novel,” a psychological thriller set in Sacramento, Calif. The New York Times called it a “quietly absorbing first novel.” Her second book, “Traps,” is a tale of four women who meet on a road trip to Las Vegas.In a 2013 interview in Vogue to promote “Traps,” Ms. Bezos said she met her husband when she interviewed for a job at D.E. Shaw as a research associate in 1992. After being hired, she sat in an office next to his. Ms. Bezos grew up in San Francisco and attended Princeton University, where she was an assistant to the novelist Toni Morrison. Ms. Bezos told Vogue that she asked Mr. Bezos to lunch and that within three months, they were engaged. They married in 1993.Mr. Bezos, who spent summers working at his grandfather’s cattle ranch in Texas, also went to Princeton, where he studied computer science. He described his younger self in the Wired profile as a “professional dater” who had set up a systemic approach to dating modeled after the criteria investment bankers used to analyze deals. (He added then it did not work.)Mr. Bezos later told Vogue, “I think my wife is resourceful, smart, brainy, and hot, but I had the good fortune of having seen her résumé before I met her, so I knew exactly what her SATs were.”The couple lived in a one-bedroom rental in downtown Seattle until 1999, when Wired reported the couple moved into a $10 million mansion in suburban Lake Washington. Mr. Bezos now owns several properties, including a mansion in Washington, D.C.Amazon shares, which closed Tuesday at $1,656, dropped early on news of the divorce but rebounded by noon.Advertisement"
" Advertisement

      Compiled by MICHAEL GONCHAR

FEB. 12, 2019

Above is an image related to one of the news stories we followed this past week. Do you know what it shows? At the bottom of this quiz, you’ll find the answer.Have you been paying attention to the news recently? See how many of these 10 questions you can get right.On the night of Feb. 11, House and Senate negotiators agreed in principle to provide $1.375 billion for fencing and other physical barriers at the Mexican border, part of a broader agreement that would stave off another  without funding President Trump’s wall.committee hearingfilibusterhike in the deficitpartial government shutdown  won for song of the year, and Michelle Obama made a surprise appearance as Alicia Keys hosted the 61st annual Grammy Awards.Ariana Grande’s “Thank U, Next”Childish Gambino’s “This Is America”Ella Mai’s “Boo’d Up”Travis Scott’s “Sicko Mode”In his second State of the Union address, President Trump delivered a message of bipartisan unity on Feb. 5, but signaled that he would continue to wage war for the  that have polarized the capital and the nation.common-sense criminal justice reformshard-line immigration policiesmajor infrastructure plansopioid epidemic emergency measuresThe House Intelligence Committee on Feb. 6 began a broad inquiry into whether , acting only hours after a defiant Speaker Nancy Pelosi declared that the House would not be cowed by the president’s “all-out threat” to drop its investigations of his administration.President Trump tried to cover up his administration’s involvement in a break-in by five men at the Democratic National Committee headquarters in WashingtonNBC was in discussions with President Trump to host a new adaptation of “The Apprentice” after his first term in office endsPresident Trump was born in the United StatesRussia and other foreign powers may be exercising influence over President Trump finished third on Feb. 10 in the final race of her career, in Sweden. The 34-year-old American skier won an unprecedented 20 season-long World Cup discipline and overall titles from 2008 to 2016, as well as three Olympic medals.Chloe KimKelly ClarkLindsey VonnMikaela ShiffrinJustin E. Fairfax’s refusal to resign as lieutenant governor of  in the face of two allegations of sexual assault has presented Democrats with an excruciating choice: whether to impeach an African-American leader at a moment when the state’s other two top leaders, both white, are resisting calls to quit after admitting to racist conduct.MissouriRhode IslandTexasVirginiaAmy Klobuchar, the third-term Minnesota senator, entered the race for the Democratic presidential nomination on Feb. 10, making her the fifth  currently serving in Congress to announce her candidacy.MidwesternermillennialveteranwomanThe Supreme Court on Feb. 7 blocked a Louisiana law that its opponents say could have left the state with .no toll-free interstate highways  only one doctor in a single clinic authorized to provide abortionsseven highly segregated school districts and no plan to remedy the situationtap water that would not have met federal clean water requirementsJeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon and the owner of The Washington Post, accused  of “extortion and blackmail” on Feb. 7, laying out a theory that brought together international intrigue, White House politics, nude photos and amorous text messages.Fox Newsthe government of Saudi ArabiaThe New York Timesthe publisher of The National EnquirerThree of the health-related articles below were recently published in The New York Times. One is from the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake news story?“A.I. Shows Promise as a Physician Assistant”“Key West Bans Sunscreen Containing Chemicals Believed to Harm Coral Reefs”“Screen Use at Bedtime May Impair Children’s Quality of Life”“Study Finds Average American Gets Most Physical Exertion Waving Cell Phone Around To Get Signal”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagJeff Bezos, the world’s wealthiest person, revealed in a sensational blog post on Thursday that he believed he was the victim of “extortion and blackmail” by the company behind The National Enquirer. He accused the company, American Media Inc., of threatening to release graphic photos of him.[Read more on the Amazon founder’s accusation and the fallout.]Legal definitions aside, there is a foolproof definition for blackmail and extortion, according to William N. Nettles, the United States attorney in South Carolina from 2010 to 2016.“They are like fancy bullying,” Mr. Nettles said.Extortion and blackmail are similar concepts with overlapping definitions. “They are very, very similar,” Mr. Nettles said. “You could say that blackmail is a specific subset of extortion.”With extortion, a person makes a threat, often physical or destructive, to obtain something or to force someone to do something. The textbook example is the mafia warning: Pay me money or I will hurt you. In 2004, an underboss of the Gambino crime family was charged and later convicted in an extortion scheme that involved a Connecticut nightclub owner paying the family for “protection.”With blackmail, a person threatens to reveal embarrassing or damaging information if a demand is not met. That demand can be for money or something else of value. In 1792, Alexander Hamilton paid $1,000 to the husband of a woman he was having an affair with, after the man threatened to reveal the relationship. While Hamilton paid the initial amount, he ignored subsequent demands.The word “extort” dates to Middle English, from the Latin word meaning to twist. Blackmail first surfaced in Scotland in the 1500s, sometimes rendered “black meal,” to describe a payment farmers and property owners would give plunderers to avoid having their land damaged. The word became a combination of black money (“black”) and rent (“meal”).In early Scottish law, both sides of a blackmail scheme were considered criminals, even those we would now consider victims. “The reason the givers are liable is because they maintain the thieves,” according to “The Laws and Customes of Scotland,” published in the 17th century.In the United States, the federal government and all 50 states have criminal statutes covering extortion and blackmail. Such cases can become federal crimes if they involve “interstate commerce,” which can be as simple as emailing a threat from one state to another.Extortion cases appear all over the world. In China, government officials have been targeted, receiving photos of their sordid behavior in the mail with a threat that the images will go public if money is not paid. There have been high-profile schemes in the United States, including one targeting David Letterman, the former host of “The Late Show” on CBS.Like Mr. Bezos, he went public with the scheme without capitulating to the demands. Mr. Letterman told his audience during a show in October 2009 that a man, later identified as a CBS producer, wanted $2 million to not reveal publicly that Mr. Letterman had been in sexual relationships with women who worked on his show. The producer, Robert Halderman, pleaded guilty to larceny, a charge that covers blackmail in New York.“There is definitely a prima facie case to be made that Jeff Bezos was being extorted by National Enquirer,” said Mr. Nettles, the former United States attorney.Mr. Nettles said that Mr. Bezos must have viewed the actions by The Enquirer and its parent company as a threat. “Jeff Bezos exposed himself by doing this,” he said.He added: “What he did was, he took the sting out of the pictures. Secondly, he called them out for what they are — bullies.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseBy James B. StewartJeff Bezos and his wife, MacKenzie, may be the first billionaire couple with a huge stake in an enormous technology company to announce their divorce.They won’t be the last.The surprise announcement last week that the Bezoses would divorce after 25 years of marriage instantly raised questions about the future of their 16 percent, roughly $140 billion stake in Amazon. As its founder, chairman, chief executive and largest shareholder, Mr. Bezos exerts almost complete control over the company he created.The big question is, now what? Will Ms. Bezos sell her portion of the family’s vast Amazon holdings? Will she seek a seat on the company’s board? Will she push for big strategic or management changes?The Bezos divorce could have consequences for investors in other companies with billionaire founders — Google, Facebook, Groupon and Snap, to name a few. Unlike Mr. Bezos, who owns Amazon shares with ordinary voting rights, these tech entrepreneurs wield control of their companies by holding special classes of shares that confer extra power to their owners.To put it more explicitly: What would happen if Mark Zuckerberg and his wife filed for divorce?That’s not to suggest there’s anything amiss in the relationship between Mr. Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan, or with the marriages of controlling shareholders at any other giant tech company.[Who is MacKenzie Bezos? Her private life has become a public fascination.]But more such breakups are inevitable — after all, the divorce rate in California is about 60 percent, and many of the founders of high-flying Silicon Valley companies are only now reaching the age for the proverbial midlife crisis.The phenomenon of tech companies with controlling founders is still relatively recent. Google set a trend when it went public in 2004 with dual-class shares that enshrined Sergey Brin and Larry Page as the controlling owners. In the ensuing 15 years, about two-thirds of initial public stock offerings backed by venture capital funds have involved similar super-shares, according to Dealogic.The fate of such controlling shares in cases of divorce is, or should be, of intense interest to investors.David F. Larcker, director of the Corporate Governance Research Initiative at Stanford’s business school and a co-author of “Separation Anxiety: The Impact of CEO Divorce on Shareholders,” said his research showed that “shareholders should pay attention to matters involving the personal lives of C.E.O.s and take this information into account when making investment decisions.”The law doesn’t explicitly require controlling shareholders to disclose prenuptial or other agreements that could affect the disposal of their company stakes in the event of divorce. But some experts said they would support such a requirement.“It’s absolutely material, and as a result it should be disclosed,” said John C. Coffee Jr., director of the Center for Corporate Governance at Columbia University. In theory, he said, any provision that would reassure investors would lead to a higher share price. “There’s no question it’s in the best interests of shareholders,” he said.Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the corporate governance center at the University of Delaware, also supports the disclosure of prenuptial agreements. “No one thought a Bezos divorce was a risk factor” for Amazon, Mr. Elson said. “Now no one knows how this will turn out. From a shareholder perspective, it’s certainly material.”Mr. Larcker said requiring public disclosure might be going a little too far, considering the privacy issues involved. But he agreed that, at the least, a board needed to be kept fully informed.“Once a divorce settlement is underway,” he said, “the board needs to think about whether the ex-spouse will demand a board seat, whether they are planning to liquidate their shares or perhaps sell as a block to an investor, maybe an activist. All of these actions can have a real impact on shareholder value.”So far, investors have hardly reacted to the Bezos breakup — Amazon’s shares are up slightly since the announcement. That might be partly because the couple went out of their way to characterize the split as amicable, saying they plan to “continue our shared lives as friends.”When many billions of dollars are at stake, amicable divorces are rare, even when they start out that way. “Most divorces start out contentious and end contentious,” said Samantha Bley DeJean, a matrimonial lawyer in San Francisco, who has worked with many Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and represents Angelina Jolie in her custody battle with Brad Pitt. “When they start out amicably, you hold out some hope that they’ll stay that way, but in my experience it only gets worse.”In 2017 Mark Pincus, the billionaire founder of the internet game company Zynga, and Alison Gelb Pincus filed for divorce. The two had a prenuptial agreement, which hasn’t been made public, but presumably addressed the issue of Mr. Pincus’s 70 percent voting stake in Zynga. In an interview with The New York Times last year, Mr. Pincus said the split was amicable.After the couple filed for divorce, Mr. Pincus converted his super-voting shares into ordinary shares, reducing his voting control of Zynga to about 10 percent. He told The Times that the conversion had nothing to do with the divorce.Ms. Pincus is an entrepreneur in her own right: she helped found the online retailer One Kings Lane, which was sold in 2016 to Bed Bath & Beyond for nearly $30 million. The Pincuses quietly finalized their divorce last year on terms that haven’t been made public. Zynga hasn’t disclosed any changes in Mr. Pincus’s shareholdings since then.A spokeswoman for Zynga, where Mr. Pincus remains executive chairman, declined to comment. Ms. DeJean, who represented Ms. Pincus, said she couldn’t discuss the case. But in general, she said, the fact that both spouses are extremely wealthy typically doesn’t change the dynamics of a divorce.“It becomes a matter of principle,” she said, “and principles can be dangerous in these situations, especially when there’s enough money to litigate them.”In their 2010 divorce, Steve and Elaine Wynn, the founders of the casino company Wynn Resorts, each received half of the couple’s 36 percent controlling stake in the company, valued then at $1.4 billion. To maintain Mr. Wynn’s control, Ms. Wynn agreed to vote her shares along with her ex-husband.At the time, the arrangement seemed amicable: Ms. Wynn warmly described Mr. Wynn as her “partner of 41 years and father of her children,” and Mr. Wynn said he was delighted that his ex-wife would remain on the company’s board.That didn’t last long. After two acrimonious years, Ms. Wynn was forced off the board and sued to regain voting control of her shares.The animosity only deepened after The Wall Street Journal reported last year that Mr. Wynn had repeatedly sexually harassed Wynn employees and had paid a manicurist $7.5 million after she told others that Mr. Wynn had forced her to have sex.That led Mr. Wynn to step down as chief executive. He sold his shares, leaving his former wife as the company’s largest shareholder. Since peaking in 2014, Wynn shares have fallen by more than half.Mr. Larcker’s research found that among 24 chief executives who got divorced between 2009 and 2012, seven (29 percent) stepped down within two years of the divorce settlement.Ms. DeJean said she had recently drafted numerous prenuptial agreements for young entrepreneurs. Negotiating them is delicate: It’s not especially romantic to be discussing the disposal of assets in a divorce proceeding in the middle of a courtship or engagement.The idea of making those prenuptial terms public could be anathema to such clients.Still, Ms. DeJean said, “I can see why investors would want to know.”An earlier version of this column paraphrased incorrectly Mark Pincus’s comments about the conversion of his shares in Zynga. He said the conversion of his super-voting shares into ordinary shares had nothing to do with his divorce from Alison Gelb Pincus; he made no reference to a lawsuit.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Jaclyn PeiserAnyone remember blogs?Years before Facebook, Instagram and Twitter took over as the prime spots for oversharing, people had to go to websites like Open Diary, Blogger and LiveJournal to publish their thoughts for the world to read.But over time, social media became the way that people shared articles that reflected their politics, posted images of loved ones and sent out messages of frustration or exultation.Medium, the online open platform and publisher, is one bloglike platform that has persisted and innovated in the social media era. With 90 million unique monthly visitors, it has maintained relevance as a destination for open letters, petitions and personal essays. But it scarcely sparks such frenetic reactions as it did Thursday night.That was when Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s billionaire chief executive, took to the website to accuse American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, of “extortion and blackmail.” The headline of the post was “No thank you, Mr. Pecker,” a reference to David J. Pecker, the chairman of American Media.The post went viral, and Medium soon found itself in the middle of a major news story.In a statement, a Medium spokeswoman said the site hadn’t known that Mr. Bezos was going to publish the post.“We do not actively monitor the specific, nonpublic details and actions of these (or any) accounts out of respect to and adherence to their individual privacies,” the spokeswoman, Sandee Roston, said in an emailed statement.The opportunity to publish for a nonbranded platform has made Medium, which was founded by Ev Williams in 2012, an appealing destination for a number of marquee media figures and chief executives.Katie Couric has used Medium to promote interviews and philanthropic partnerships. Joanna Coles, the former chief content officer of Hearst Magazines, used the platform to write about her experience as a working mother.In 2015, Jay Carney, the senior vice president of global corporate affairs for Amazon, disputed an article in The New York Times about Amazon’s work culture in a post on Medium. Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, responded on the platform, defending The Times’s reporting.Medium can be appealing because it is unfiltered, and posts can be however long the writer wants them to be. For Mr. Bezos, that was about 2,100 words.“When people have something to say, they come to Medium, where they can say it at length,” Ms. Roston, the spokeswoman, said in the statement. “We make it easy for people to publish; it’s clean and well designed, and there are no ads.”Follow Jaclyn Peiser on Twitter: @jackiepeiser.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Elijah Walker(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. A second woman has accused Virginia’s lieutenant governor of sexual assault, allegations that deepen the state’s political leadership crisis.Meredith Watson accused Justin Fairfax of raping her while they were students at Duke University in 2000. In a statement, Ms. Watson said she was coming forward after learning about allegations disclosed this week by Vanessa Tyson, who said Mr. Fairfax assaulted her in 2004.Mr. Fairfax’s ability to stay on as lieutenant governor now appears more precarious, with leading Democrats — including some Congressional Black Caucus members — calling for an investigation. Mr. Fairfax, above in the capital today, has denied both allegations.It’s the latest in a week of turmoil in the commonwealth. Revelations about past racist behavior by the governor, attorney general and a top Republican state senator are testing the state’s reputation as a progressive-minded beacon. The week has also reinforced that blackface, with its roots in demeaning minstrel-show traditions that date to the 1830s, has never gone away._____2. The Supreme Court blocked a Louisiana law that would have limited access to abortion providers. But it may be only a temporary setback for the anti-abortion movement.The ruling was a temporary stay of the law, which requires doctors performing abortions to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals, and the court is likely to hear a challenge to the law on the merits in October.The Louisiana law is just one case in a broader strategy to chip away at abortion rights, as abortion opponents advance a long-term and wide-ranging strategy to control state legislatures and governorships. Above, protesters outside the court in January.In a surprise move, Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. joined the court’s liberal wing in the 5-to-4 decision. Our Supreme Court reporter takes a look at how the chief justice balances guarding his court’s legitimacy against his generally conservative impulses._____3. The acting attorney general told Congress that he had “not interfered in any way with the special counsel’s investigation” or provided information to the White House about it.But Matthew Whitaker, appearing before the House Judiciary Committee, refused to discuss other things, like his conversations with President Trump, or why he recently said the special counsel’s inquiry would soon wrap up. He also declined to defend the investigation as his predecessor and likely successor at the Justice Department have done.Separately, Mr. Trump is moving toward accepting a border-security deal that would fall well short of his once-firm demand for $5.7 billion for a wall at the southwestern frontier._____4. When the world’s richest man announced he was getting a divorce on Twitter, it was just the first surprise of many to swirl around Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder.Steamy texts, a private investigation, claims of blackmail — and a suspicion that politics are behind it all — followed Mr. Bezos. He raised the stakes Thursday when he accused the National Enquirer and its publisher, American Media Inc., of trying to extort him.Mr. Bezos said the company had threatened to publish lewd photos of him if he did not say publicly that the tabloid’s earlier reporting on him was not motivated by politics. We broke down how a tabloid tale escalated, and exploded andGavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’s security chief, was tasked with finding out how The National Enquirer obtained the photos. He’s counseled governments, celebrities and countless readers on how to ward off threats and stay safe in a scary world._____5. Oil sanctions imposed on Venezuela last week by the Trump administration were meant to punish President Nicolás Maduro and force him to cede power to the opposition leader. The effects have hit its citizens harder and faster than expected.Customers suspended contracts, banks suspended Venezuelan accounts, and a dozen tankers filled with Venezuelan crude sat stranded across the Caribbean. But the Venezuelan state oil company, the main target of the sanctions and Mr. Maduro’s bankroller, has found a new way to survive with a boost from its biggest oil investor, Russia’s state-run Rosneft.Now, many Venezuelans fear that if Mr. Maduro hangs on to power, the sanctions will push the country to the brink of humanitarian catastrophe. Above, people wait to purchase hard-to-find food items in January.“I’m afraid that if these sanctions are implemented in their current form, we’re looking at starvation,” a Venezuelan economist said._____6. At least 10 people died in a fire at a Brazilian training center for young soccer players run by one of South America’s most prominent teams.The fire struck a dormitory of the training center of the Flemengo club in Rio de Janeiro where many players between the ages of 14 and 17 were asleep. The fire reverberated through the soccer world and focused the attention on living conditions for young Brazilian players, many of whom live in similar dormitories across the country. Above, fans gather outside the training center to pray.“Training at Flamengo is realizing your life’s goal,” a Brazilian sports columnist and author said. “But now it’s a dream turned into a nightmare.”_____7. For years, competitive surfing has excluded women from some of the biggest competitions around the world. But that’s beginning to change.The Times Magazine talks to a group of female surfers, including Paige Alms, above, who have insisted upon the same right to risk their lives in competition that men enjoy, and for equal pay — and they have been more successful than they ever imagined._____8. The Grammys made a series of changes in the past year to address its lack of diversity. But whether new nominees will win — or big names will show up at the awards show on Sunday night — isn’t guaranteed.One clear change viewers will see is that eight, instead of five, acts will now compete in four major categories: album, record and song of the year, and best new artist. That change satisfied critics by adding more women to the mix, but in many ways the Grammys are still walking a tightrope of balancing diverse representation while staying culturally relevant, our music reporter writes.In this week’s In Her Words, our gender newsletter, we take a look at how Ariana Grande and Cardi B, above, who are up for a collective seven Grammys, have taken music video tropes created by men — audacious displays of money and sex — and expertly extracted the testosterone._____9. Are you someone who wants to blame winter for everything?Only about 6 percent of the population has seasonal affective disorder, a form of depression that is commonly understood as a winter affliction. The rest of us are just battling winter blues. Blame it on your circadian rhythm, which gets disrupted when the days get shorter and nights longer.We have a slew of ways to beat back the winter doldrums, including light therapy, herbalism and forcing yourself, and others, to be social.Perhaps you’re looking for a wintertime sport instead. An increasing number of people are taking up snow hiking: wintertime trekking using snowshoes or special boots. Here’s what you need to know._____10. Finally, we end with a woman known as “the Black Fairy.”During the occupation years in Germany after World War II, the offspring of German women and African-American soldiers were called “brown babies” or “mischlingskinder,” a derogatory term for mixed-race children.Mabel Grammer, an African-American journalist, and her husband, an Army chief warrant officer stationed in Germany, adopted 12 of them and she found homes in the U.S. for 500 others. She never received a Times obituary, until now. Hers is the latest in our Overlooked series.“I just think of my own life,” one of her children said. “The opportunities to be where I am today would not have been there. I know that for a fact.”Have a wonderful weekend._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byA primer on the players and plot points in a fight that erupted on Thursday in accusations of extortion. By Zach Wichter and Tiffany HsuA surprise divorce announcement by the world’s richest man, steamy texts, a private investigation, claims of blackmail — and a suspicion that politics are behind it all. These aren’t plot points in a movie coming soon to Amazon Prime. They’re the increasingly surprising events swirling around Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder. Mr. Bezos raised the stakes on Thursday when he accused The National Enquirer and its publisher, American Media Inc., of trying to extort him. In a blog post, he said the company had threatened to publish lewd photos of him if he did not say publicly that the tabloid’s earlier reporting on him was not motivated by politics.The story will probably get wilder. Before it does, here’s a primer on Mr. Bezos’ divorce, the National Enquirer, and why the battle between them could have implications for President Trump.[Jeff Bezos said he was a victim of extortion and blackmail. What’s the difference?]Before Mr. Bezos published his bombshell post on the online platform Medium, he lit up Twitter on Jan. 9 with the surprise announcement of his separation and planned divorce from his wife of 25 years, the novelist MacKenzie Bezos:The reasons for the divorce and the motive behind the Twitter post were a mystery until the next day, when The Enquirer’s Jan. 28 issue appeared on supermarket racks. The cover called Mr. Bezos “sleazy” and included the logo of the newspaper he has owned since 2013, The Washington Post. The article itself included some highly personal text messages he had sent to a woman with whom he was having an extramarital affair, Lauren Sanchez, a former host of the Fox show “So You Think You Can Dance” who is married to a powerful Hollywood figure, Patrick Whitesell, the co-chief executive of the agency William Morris Endeavor. There were also paparazzi photos of Mr. Bezos and Ms. Sanchez on an airport tarmac and “gazing into each other’s eyes” in a Santa Monica restaurant.Mr. Bezos subsequently opened a private investigation to determine why he had been targeted by The Enquirer. He directed his longtime personal security chief, Gavin de Becker, to find out how the tabloid had obtained the texts. Mr. de Becker’s firm questioned Ms. Sanchez’s brother, Michael Sanchez, about whether he might be the source, according to The Daily Beast.On Tuesday, The Post weighed in on the melodrama involving its owner with a lengthy article headlined “Was tabloid exposé of Bezos affair just juicy gossip or a political hit job?” “Depending on whom you believe,” the article said, “The Enquirer’s exposé on Bezos’s affair was a political hit inspired by President Trump’s allies, an inside job by people seeking to protect Bezos’s marriage, or no conspiracy at all, simply a juicy gossip story.” The Post described Ms. Sanchez’s brother as a “pro-Trump Hollywood talent manager” whom Mr. de Becker considered as a possible source of the texts.David J. Pecker, American Media’s chairman, has a longstanding allegiance to Mr. Trump. According to federal prosecutors, he used The Enquirer to help protect Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign. In addition to defending Mr. Trump in its pages and lashing out at his rivals during the 2016 race, the tabloid was involved in a so-called catch-and-kill scheme to bury damaging allegations.American Media admitted to federal prosecutors that it had helped orchestrate hush-money deals involving two women who said they had had affairs with Mr. Trump: the former Playboy model Karen McDougal and the pornographic film star Stormy Daniels. Mr. Pecker reached an immunity deal with prosecutors in exchange for providing them with information.Reporters for The Post have investigated American Media and Mr. Trump. And American Media has lucrative relationships with Saudi Arabia, which Mr. Bezos, without elaborating, noted in his post on Thursday.Several days ago, an AMI leader advised us that Mr. Pecker is “apoplectic” about our investigation. For reasons still to be better understood, the Saudi angle seems to hit a particularly sensitive nerve.Mr. Bezos also said that his ownership of The Post had made him a target.It’s unavoidable that certain powerful people who experience Washington Post news coverage will wrongly conclude I am their enemy.President Trump is one of those people, obvious by his many tweets. Also, The Post’s essential and unrelenting coverage of the murder of its columnist Jamal Khashoggi is undoubtedly unpopular in certain circles.Mr. Trump has made no secret of his animosity toward Mr. Bezos. After the news of the Amazon mogul’s pending divorce and The Enquirer’s exposé, he coined a new nickname for a man he considers an antagonist.Long before that, the president had often used Twitter to criticize Amazon, The Post and Mr. Bezos. One of Mr. Trump’s favorite tropes is to conflate Amazon and the newspaper, as he did on Jan. 13, although The Post is owned by Mr. Bezos personally.Tiffany Hsu is a breaking news reporter on the Business Desk. Before joining The Times in 2017 she covered economic news for The Los Angeles Times and earned an M.B.A. from Columbia University.  @tiffkhsu Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who was staggered by Amazon’s decision to pull out of its plans to come to New York City, is working intensely behind the scenes to lure the company back, even connecting with Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder, to make a personal pitch.The governor has had multiple phone conversations with Amazon executives, including Mr. Bezos, over the past two weeks, according to two people with knowledge of the efforts. In those calls, Mr. Cuomo said he would navigate the company through the byzantine governmental process.Mr. Cuomo did not offer a new location but rather guarantees of support for the project, one person said. Amazon executives gave no sense the company would reconsider.The governor on Friday confirmed his efforts during a radio interview, and suggested, without elaborating, that he told Amazon that there were “other ways that the state can get it done” that might bypass some of the deal’s more vocal opponents.The push to get Amazon to reconsider also included an open letter that ran as a full-page ad in The New York Times on Friday, urging Mr. Bezos, the company’s chief executive, to reverse course and build the campus in Long Island City, Queens.[Latest update: After Cuomo’s calls to Amazon, a flurry of conversations to rally support.]The letter was signed by more than 70 supportive unions including the AFL-CIO, local businesses and business leaders, community groups and elected officials including Representatives Hakeem Jeffries of Brooklyn, a top Democrat, Max Rose, a first-term Democrat from Staten Island, and Carolyn Maloney, whose district encompasses the Amazon site, and the former mayor David N. Dinkins.The letter said that Mr. Cuomo “will take personal responsibility for the project’s state approval,” and Mayor Bill de Blasio “will work together with the governor to manage the community development process.”A full-page ad appearing in The New York Times on Friday urged Mr. Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, to reverse course again and build a campus in Queens.So far at least, the company has shown no sign of reconsidering its decision to abandon the deal, in which Amazon promised to create up to 40,000 jobs in Long Island City in exchange for a state grant of $500 million and state and city tax breaks that would have eventually totaled more than $2 billion.On Friday, the governor told WNYC’s Brian Lehrer that the company has not conveyed any change of heart. “I have no reason to believe that Amazon is reconsidering,” he said. “Would I like them to? Certainly. But I have no reason to believe that.”A day earlier, Mr. Cuomo said that “ if the State Senate said that they would approve it, that would be helpful. But in the meantime, I haven’t heard any changes.”Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the Democratic majority leader of the State Senate, said in a statement that she had indicated her “willingness to work” with Amazon. “I have always been clear that I support job creation and was disappointed with Amazon’s decision and hoped they would reconsider,” she said.An Amazon spokeswoman declined a request for comment.The conversation between Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Bezos appeared to have been the first time the two had spoken at any point about Amazon’s plans for Queens, or about the company’s abrupt decision earlier in February to cancel the project amid noisy opposition.Since the deal fell through, Mr. Cuomo has been arguing in public and in private that support for the project was and remains far more widespread than it may have seemed.“I do believe Amazon should have stayed and fought the opposition,” said Mr. Cuomo in a radio interview on Tuesday. “It was a vocal minority opposition. Seventy percent of the people support Amazon.”He reiterated that message to Amazon executives during calls, according to one of the people with knowledge of the exchanges, both of whom requested anonymity in order to discuss the private conversations.The campus was meant to be one half of what had been called a second headquarters for the company; the other half, with roughly the same number of jobs, is still planned for a Virginia suburb of Washington.But Amazon faced vociferous opponents — including local groups, some unions and political activists animated by the surprise victory of Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez — from the moment it announced its plans for Queens in November. Three months later, with no end in sight for the sustained political pressure and negative attention, executives decided to pull the plug.Those familiar with the company’s thinking have insisted that the decision to abandon the New York City plan had been based on a confluence of factors, including the loud opposition and the lack of any sign it would abate.“We think we could have gotten New York done, but you have to say, ‘At what cost?’” Holly Sullivan, Amazon’s director of global economic development, said at an event in Virginia on Thursday. “We made a prudent decision that gives us the opportunity to hyperfocus on D.C.”The advertisement, an open letter to Mr. Bezos that was set to appear on a full page in Friday’s newspaper, is aimed at combating the notion that the opposition to Amazon was widespread, arguing that a “clear majority” of New Yorkers support the company.“We know the public debate that followed the announcement of the Long Island City project was rough and not very welcoming,” reads the letter, paid for by the Partnership for New York City, a prominent business group. “But when we commit to a project as important as this, we figure out how to get it done in a way that works for everyone.”Kathryn S. Wylde, the president of the partnership, said the letter had been aimed not just at Amazon but at assuring technology companies generally that New York City welcomed their businesses: “Yes, it’s directed to Amazon in hopes they will reconsider. Equally, it is a message to the broader industry.”“The governor’s office was working with the business community on how to send this message,” Ms. Wylde added, and the result was the letter.The letter included new supporters as well as many — such as public housing leaders, local small businesses and unions like Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union and the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York — who backed the deal all along. A spokesman for Mr. de Blasio, whose initial support of the Amazon deal has turned into vigorous criticism after the company pulled out, said the mayor was aware that the letter was being prepared.The most vocal opponents, like Stuart Appelbaum, president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, were not among the signatories.“Our concerns remain the same,” Mr. Appelbaum said in response to Mr. Cuomo’s efforts. “If Amazon wants to come to New York, it must respect all workers and communities.”One thing that has changed in the last two weeks: Ms. Stewart-Cousins, the State Senate majority leader, withdrew her nomination of Senator Michael Gianaris to the obscure Public Authorities Control Board. The position would have given Mr. Gianaris, who represents Long Island City, the ability to vote down the development project for Amazon when it came before the board in about a year’s time.But Mr. Cuomo refused to appoint Mr. Gianaris, who declined to comment on the governor’s efforts, or to formally reject him. And so last week, Ms. Stewart-Cousins selected another Queens representative, Leroy Comrie, to sit on the board, a person who would be more likely to get the governor’s approval.Mr. Comrie did not respond to a request for comment.“The State Senate made a terrible blunder; everyone, including their members, knows it,” said Dani Lever, the governor’s communications director. “The governor will take over the process and can comfortably assure Amazon the approval will get done.”Follow J. David Goodman on Twitter: @jdavidgoodmanOpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Jeff Bezos’ security consultant accused the Saudi government of gaining unauthorized access to the Amazon chief executive’s phone, as part of an effort to harm the world’s richest man.In an opinion article in The Daily Beast on Saturday, Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ security chief, alleged the Saudis wanted to hurt Mr. Bezos because he owns The Washington Post. The Post has aggressively reported on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, one of its columnists, who was killed last year in Turkey. United States officials have concluded Mr. Khashoggi, who was critical of Saudi leaders, was killed on the orders of the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.Mr. de Becker said he had turned over his findings about the Saudis and their role against Mr. Bezos to law enforcement.“Our investigators and several experts concluded with high confidence that the Saudis had access to Bezos’ phone, and gained private information,” Mr. de Becker wrote.Mr. de Becker’s claims about the Saudis are difficult to verify and raise many questions. Throughout his article, the security consultant was vague on details. He did not reveal direct evidence of his accusations and wrote that he would not speak again publicly on the issue.On Sunday, American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, which first reported earlier this year that Mr. Bezos was having an extramarital affair, issued a statement denying “the false and unsubstantiated claims of Mr. de Becker.”Amazon did not immediately have a comment about Mr. Bezos. An official with the Saudi embassy in Washington declined to comment on Saturday.Mr. de Becker’s allegations are the latest twist in a bizarre situation that has embroiled the largest U.S. tabloid publisher and Mr. Bezos, who runs Amazon and owns The Post. The unusual set of circumstances began in January, when Mr. Bezos announced that he and his wife, MacKenzie Bezos, were divorcing. The next day, The Enquirer published an exposé revealing that Mr. Bezos was romantically involved with Lauren Sanchez, a former Los Angeles TV anchor.Then in February, Mr. Bezos published a post on Medium accusing AMI of “extortion and blackmail.” Mr. Bezos said AMI had threatened to publish graphic photographs of him, including a “below-the-belt selfie,” if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not motivated by political concerns. He said AMI, which has had ties to the Saudis, was “apoplectic” about The Post’s reporting on the Saudis.Mr. Bezos added that he had asked Mr. de Becker, his longtime security consultant, to investigate who had leaked information and photos about him.Earlier this month, The New York Times reported that two people with direct knowledge of The Enquirer’s reporting said that everything the tabloid received on Mr. Bezos’ affair, including the “below-the-belt selfie,” came from a single source. The Wall Street Journal later reported that AMI had paid Ms. Sanchez’s brother, Michael Sanchez, $200,000 for the texts.In its statement on Sunday, AMI said directly that its source was Mr. Sanchez. “The fact of the matter is, it was Michael Sanchez who tipped the National Enquirer off to the affair on Sept. 10, 2018, and over the course of four months provided all of the materials for our investigation.” AMI added, “There was no involvement by any other third party whatsover.”Mr. de Becker on Saturday said that the effort against Mr. Bezos went beyond Mr. Sanchez and also involved the Saudis. Mr. de Becker pointed to an article published on Saturday by The New York Post in which Mr. Sanchez said The Enquirer “had seen text exchanges between the secret couple” before he was in touch with the tabloid on the matter.“Reality is complicated, and can’t always be boiled down to a simple narrative like ‘the brother did it,’” Mr. de Becker wrote.Mr. de Becker said his investigation included interviews with cybersecurity experts and “people who personally know the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.” But he stopped short of saying what methods he believed the Saudis may have used to access Mr. Bezos’ personal information.He added that AMI had wanted him to make a public statement “saying that my investigation had concluded they hadn’t relied upon ‘any form of electronic eavesdropping or hacking in their news-gathering process,’” and that the tabloid’s story was not “instigated, dictated or influenced in any manner by external forces, political or otherwise.”Mr. de Becker said he told AMI in a recorded call that those claims were “not my truth.”Follow Karen Weise on Twitter: @KYWeise.Amy Chozick and David Kirkpatrick contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Federal prosecutors in New York are planning to meet with Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos about his allegations that the National Enquirer tried to blackmail him with help from Saudi Arabia.A person familiar with the plans told The Associated Press the billionaire will meet with prosecutors in the coming days.The person was not authorized to discuss the meeting and spoke on condition of anonymity.Bezos security consultant Gavin de Becker accused the Saudi government last month of gaining ""private information"" and access to Bezos' phone.The tabloid's parent company has had business dealings with Saudi Arabia.Bezos says the Enquirer threatened to publish explicit photographs of him unless he stopped investigating how the magazine obtained private texts between Bezos and his mistress.The Enquirer and Saudi Arabia have denied wrongdoing.Advertisement"
" Her divorce from the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos has made this novelist, and her private life, a public fascination.CreditCreditPhoto Illustration by The New York Times; Jon Kopaloff/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Jonah Engel Bromwich and Alexandra AlterIn her 25 years of marriage to Jeff Bezos, MacKenzie Bezos has been a loyal ambassador for Amazon, the company that made her and her husband the richest couple in the world.She was an integral part of its origin story, driving to Seattle in 1994 while Mr. Bezos sat in the passenger seat, working on the nascent company’s business plan. She was Amazon’s first accountant and was involved in its transformation from a small online bookseller to the e-commerce behemoth it is today, the second company in American history to be valued at over a trillion dollars.Ms. Bezos, 48, is a novelist. But Amazon has defined her public image almost wholly. The announcement this week that she and her husband would be getting a divorce may soon change that. A statement signed “Jeff & MacKenzie,” which was first posted to Mr. Bezos’s Twitter account, read: “After a period of loving exploration and trial separation, we have decided to divorce and continue our shared lives as friends.” The couple, who have four children, wrote that they see “wonderful futures ahead, as parents, friends, partners in ventures and projects, and as individuals pursuing ventures and adventures.”Over the last few decades, as Amazon grew, Ms. Bezos appeared with her husband at some high-profile events, including Vanity Fair’s Oscar parties and the Golden Globes; in 2012, she was a host of the Met Gala. (Amazon also underwrote the event.) But for the most part, Ms. Bezos has guarded her privacy, preferring to focus on writing and her children. She could not be reached for comment on this article.She has made infrequent forays into the public eye to promote her books and to defend her husband’s company. In 2013, she posted a scathing one-star review on Amazon of “The Everything Store,” a book about Amazon by Brad Stone, to say it was plagued by “numerous factual inaccuracies” and “full of techniques which stretch the boundaries of non-fiction.” (Mr. Stone is a veteran technology reporter. Michiko Kakutani, reviewing his book for The New York Times, said he told “this story of disruptive innovation with authority and verve, and lots of well-informed reporting.”)Little is known about Ms. Bezos, a private woman who may be awarded one of the largest divorce settlements to date.MacKenzie Tuttle, an aspiring novelist, met her husband at D. E. Shaw, a New York hedge fund where Mr. Bezos, a computer scientist by training, had become a senior vice president. She told Vogue that she took the position of administrative assistant to pay the bills while she worked on her novels, but she soon found herself enamored with the laugh of the man who worked in the next office over. As Ms. Bezos put it in a 2013 interview with Charlie Rose: “It was love at first listen.”Within three months of dating, the two were engaged; they married shortly thereafter at a resort in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Bezos was 30; Ms. Bezos was 23.She often described herself as a bookish introvert, especially compared with Mr. Bezos, a swaggering, infinitely expansive businessman whose chief romantic desire, he told Wired in 1999, six years after his wedding, had been to meet someone “resourceful.” (That type of attraction seems to be mutual. In 2017, at a Summit panel, Mr. Bezos said that one of his wife’s sayings is: “I would much rather have a kid with nine fingers than a resourceless kid.”)Ms. Bezos’s literary ambitions began early. According to interviews and her author biography on Amazon (where she coyly notes that she “lives in Seattle with her husband and four children”), she started writing seriously at age 6, when she finished a 142-page chapter book titled “The Book Worm.” It was later destroyed in a flood; Ms. Bezos has said that she now meticulously backs up her work.At Princeton, she studied creative writing under the Nobel Prize-winning novelist Toni Morrison, who hired her as a research assistant for the 1992 novel “Jazz” and introduced her to her high-powered literary agent, Amanda Urban. In Vogue, Ms. Morrison hailed Ms. Bezos as a rare talent, calling her “one of the best students I’ve ever had in my creative writing classes.” In 2005 she gave Ms. Bezos a glowing blurb on her debut novel, “The Testing of Luther Albright,” calling it, “a rarity: a sophisticated novel that breaks and swells the heart.”After graduating from Princeton in 1992, six years after Mr. Bezos graduated from the same university, Ms. Bezos took the job that introduced her to the future e-commerce titan. The couple married in 1993 and moved to Seattle in 1994, the same year Amazon was incorporated. Quickly, Ms. Bezos’s identity became enfolded into her husband’s company, even as she sought to make her mark in a publishing industry that he worked tirelessly to upend.From the start, Mr. Bezos knew he wanted to disrupt traditional retail businesses using the internet. He quickly established Amazon as a successful internet bookstore and then began to diversify, selling music (when that was still viable), videos, medication and other consumer goods.His vision, as told to Chip Bayers and published in a 1999 Wired profile, was prescient. Mr. Bezos predicted that in 2020: The vast bulk of store-bought goods — food staples, paper products, cleaning supplies, and the like — you will order electronically. Some physical storefronts will survive, but they’ll have to offer at least one of two things: entertainment value or immediate convenience.MacKenzie Bezos, who first lived with her husband in a rented home in an East Seattle suburb, was heavily involved in the business at the start: In addition to working as an accountant, she helped brainstorm names for the company and even shipped early orders through UPS, according to “The Everything Store.”“She was clearly a voice in the room in those early years,” Mr. Stone said in an interview for this article.In 1999, they moved into a $10 million mansion in Medina, Wash., and Ms. Bezos became pregnant with their first child. As they rapidly accumulated wealth, the Bezos family took pains to preserve the trappings of normalcy. Ms. Bezos often drove the four children to school in a Honda, and would then drop Mr. Bezos at the office, Mr. Stone wrote.As the company flourished, Ms. Bezos stepped back and focused on her family and her literary ambitions.“Business wasn’t her passion, and when Amazon took off she wasn’t as involved in the day-to-day business,” Mr. Stone said.She spent a decade on her first novel, often getting up early to write, and signed with her mentor’s literary agent, Ms. Urban at ICM Partners, who also represents Cormac McCarthy, Haruki Murakami and Kazuo Ishiguro. “The Testing of Luther Albright,” which was published by Harper in 2005 and was widely embraced by critics, tells the story of an engineer whose professional and home lives begin to unravel in the 1980s. In a review in The New York Times, Kate Bolick called the novel “quietly absorbing.” The Los Angeles Times named it one of the best books of the year, and Publishers Weekly praised Ms. Bezos’s “subtle imagination and a startling talent for naturalism.”In 2013, Ms. Bezos published her second novel, “Traps,” which follows the journey of woman named Jessica Lessing, a reclusive film star, as she emerges from hiding to confront her father, a con man who has been selling her out to the paparazzi for years. Jessica drives to Las Vegas to meet him, and encounters three other women: a teen mother, a dog-shelter owner and a former military bodyguard, who become her allies.“I would say the biggest theme in the book is the idea that the things that we worry over the most in life, the things that we feel trapped by, the mistakes we’ve made, the bad luck that we come across, the accidents that happen to us, the paradoxes — in the end, oftentimes those things are the things that we’ll look back and be the most grateful for,” Ms. Bezos said of the novel during an interview with Charlie Rose. “They take us where we need to go.”Throughout their marriage, Mr. Bezos was an enthusiastic supporter of Ms. Bezos’s fiction, and would clear his schedule to read drafts of her novels, Ms. Bezos told Vogue. In the acknowledgments of “Traps,” she called him “my most devoted reader.”But Ms. Bezos’s literary career may have been complicated to some extent by her high-profile husband, who has done more than perhaps any individual in recent history to transform and sometimes destabilize the book-selling business. Many independent booksellers, publishers and agents blame Amazon for building a monopoly that has put independent stores out of business and poses a dire threat to once thriving chains like Barnes & Noble. Even though Amazon splashily introduced its own publishing imprints, Ms. Bezos still chose traditional houses for her books: Harper and Knopf. (When asked by an interviewer why Ms. Bezos wasn’t publishing her books through Amazon’s fiction imprints, Mr. Bezos jokingly described his wife as “the fish that got away.”)Sales of her books have been modest: The novels have sold a few thousand print copies, according to NPD BookScan, which tracks some 85 percent of print sales. Some independent booksellers refused to stock Ms. Bezos’s novels, according to a publishing executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Ms. Urban, Ms. Bezos’s literary agent, declined to comment for this article.The Bezoses were the richest couple in the world; their divorce exists at a level of wealth that is virtually unprecedented. There have been billion-dollar divorces, like that of Steve and Elaine Wynn who owned casinos together, and certainly, technology entrepreneurs have been in and out of divorce court — most notably Larry Ellison, a co-founder of Oracle who has been wed and unwed four times.But there has never been a divorce with a couple worth an estimated $137 billion, as Mr. and Ms. Bezos are.Little is known about the couple’s financial arrangements. Divorces are governed by state law, and the Bezoses’ primary residence and business are in Washington State, a community property state where any income earned or wealth created during the marriage is to be divided equitably between spouses.But some lawyers think it is unlikely that Mr. and Mrs. Bezos will adhere to that guideline in a predictable manner. If they were to split assets equally, Mr. Bezos could find the 16.1 percent of Amazon stock he owns halved.“I’d imagine they didn’t fight at all over how much wealth each other gets,” said William Zabel, a founding partner of the law firm Schulte Roth and Zabel, who has handled many high-profile divorce cases but not worked with the Bezoses. Probably, he said, “they fought about control.”Mr. Zabel represented Wendi Murdoch and Jane Welch in their separations, and said he thought the Bezoses would almost certainly negotiate a way to split the value of the Amazon shares while allowing Mr. Bezos the leverage he might need. The length of time such an agreement remains in place would be part of the negotiations.Ms. Bezos has kept a low profile in recent weeks, and has not been photographed since the divorce was announced. (Mr. Bezos, by contrast, has continued to appear publicly and was pictured this month at a Golden Globes after-party with Lauren Sanchez, a former television anchor he is reportedly seeing.)It is unknown what Ms. Bezos will do next, and how the divorce will play out.There will be inevitable questions, for instance, about her plans regarding philanthropy. The Bezoses’ charitable contributions have been modest in the past. In 2011, they donated $15 million to their alma mater to create a center to study the brain. The following year, they gave $2.5 million to support a same-sex marriage referendum in Washington. In 2017, Mr. Bezos asked his followers on Twitter for ideas about how better to give, and in September he and Ms. Bezos announced a $2 billion fund to help homeless families and start a network of Montessori-inspired preschools. But Ms. Bezos could pave her own philanthropic path, like Laurene Powell Jobs, who started her own foundation, the Emerson Collective.And if Ms. Bezos continues to write and publish, perhaps she could find a more receptive audience among independent booksellers. Some publishing executives, who declined to be quoted on the record, spoke gleefully, at least, of the blockbuster potential if Ms. Bezos decides to write a memoir.Vanessa Friedman and Paul Sullivan contributed reporting. Jonah Bromwich is based in New York. He writes for the Style section.  @jonesieman Alexandra Alter writes about publishing and the literary world. Before joining The Times in 2014, she covered books and culture for The Wall Street Journal. Prior to that, she reported on religion, and the occasional hurricane, for The Miami Herald.
   @xanalter Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressAmazon challenged its retail rivals to raise their wages and improve benefits, saying the competition will help everyone.CEO and founder Jeff Bezos said in a letter to shareholders Thursday that as Amazon grows, so does the size of its ""failed experiments.""He said Amazon is willing to continue to take risks and learn from its failures, while simultaneously supporting successful areas of its business like its third-party sellers and retail locations.Bezos named the Fire phone as a failure, but Echo and Alexa as successes.He also touted third-party sales of $160 billion and Amazon Go stores, saying Amazon is ""excited about the future.""Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byJeff Bezos, born in New Mexico, raised in Texas and educated at Princeton, must like the term, because he used it twice within a few sentences. And both times it referred to his ownership of The Washington Post. By Kevin GranvilleYou’re the world’s richest man, you are making public allegations of blackmail and extortion and mentioning photos of your “semi-erect manhood.”You can probably use any language you choose. But “complexifier”? Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, threw that multisyllabic hand grenade into his 2,100 word-blog post as he described his accusations against American Media Inc., the publisher of The National Enquirer.Here’s a piece of context: My ownership of the Washington Post is a complexifier for me. It’s unavoidable that certain powerful people who experience Washington Post news coverage will wrongly conclude I am their enemy. It’s a term that threw some readers for a loop. Okay but is “complexifier” actually a real word or....Is it even English?Well, no, not according to many dictionaries. It’s French! According to the online Larousse dictionary, it means (not surprisingly) to make something more complex or complicated.Mr. Bezos, born in New Mexico, raised in Texas and educated at Princeton, must like the term, because he used it twice within a few sentences. And both times it referred to his ownership of The Washington Post. Even though The Post is a complexifier for me, I do not at all regret my investment.In the end, the multibillionaire may have added complexifier to English usage. After all, language thrives when it becomes more complex. Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc Chief Executive Jeff Bezos on Thursday challenged retailers to hike their minimum wages to $16 an hour, prompting a comeback from Walmart Inc which asked its rivals to pay taxes.""Today I challenge our top retail competitors (you know who you are!) to match our employee benefits and our $15 minimum wage,"" the billionaire entrepreneur said in a letter to shareholders.""Do it! Better yet, go to $16 and throw the gauntlet back at us.""The online retailer raised its minimum wage to $15 per hour for U.S. employees from November, giving in to critics of poor pay and working conditions at the company.Some critics have said the hike was insufficient and note that Amazon paid zero U.S. federal income tax on more than $11 billion in profits before taxes in 2018, and received a $129 million tax rebate from the federal government.Walmart's executive vice president of corporate affairs, Dan Bartlett, responded to Bezos by tweeting, ""Hey retail competitors out there (you know who you are) how about paying your taxes?""Walmart, which has raised its minimum wage twice since 2015, pays an entry wage of $11 per hour. CEO Doug McMillon has said Walmart's average U.S. hourly wage is $17.50 including bonuses based on store performance, and excluding healthcare benefits.The two retailers, which are fierce rivals, rarely go after one another other publicly.Amazon's wage hike came as U.S. unemployment was at a near two-decade low, with retailers and shippers competing for hundreds of thousands of workers for the all-important holiday shopping season.Bezos said in his letter that the wage hike has benefited more than 250,000 Amazon employees and over 100,000 seasonal employees who worked during the last holiday season at Amazon sites in the United States. Amazon's third party sales in 2018 accounted for 58 percent of total sales, up from 56 percent in 2017, Bezos said.Amazon has said that it pays all the required taxes in every country where it operates, including $2.6 billion in corporate tax and reporting $3.4 billion in tax expense over the last three years.""Corporate tax is based on profits, not revenues, and our profits remain modest given retail is a highly competitive, low-margin business,"" according to recent Amazon statements. (Reporting by Nandita Bose in Washington and Akanksha Rana in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and Richard Chang)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Dave ItzkoffIt started off as a serious discussion about Jeff Bezos’ accusation that The National Enquirer was engaging in extortion and blackmail by threatening to expose his private photos. But the discussion didn’t stay serious for long.In its opening sketch this week, “Saturday Night Live” presented a parody of “Meet the Press,” hosted by Chuck Todd (Kyle Mooney) and featuring the panelists Eugene Robinson (Kenan Thompson), Peggy Noonan (Cecily Strong) and Donna Brazile (Leslie Jones).Mooney began: “Let’s start with what everyone’s talking about. In a new low for journalism, The National Enquirer was accused this week of blackmailing Amazon C.E.O. Jeff Bezos.”“You’re all highly respected journalists,” he continued. “So, when all is said and done, what do you think Jeff Bezos’ penis is going to look like?”“Excuse me?” Jones replied.The panelists offered various theories (except for Jones, who remained astounded), and Mooney asked what the scandal said about the overall state of the country.Thompson answered: “It’s disgraceful, Chuck. It’s awful. I mean, this is a clear violation of someone’s privacy.”“And what about when the pictures do come out?” Mooney asked.“I will look at them,” Thompson responded. “I will make them into hilarious memes, and I’ll send them to all my friends.”The prurient subject matter derailed an interview with the commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross (Kate McKinnon), who protested: “I don’t want to talk about penises. I’m one of the guys. I like watching sports and drinking a cold glass of blood.”And the topic overwhelmed an interview with the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker (Aidy Bryant), who explained, “I was U.S. attorney general for three months, and soon, I will go back to my job of breaking up fights on ‘The Jerry Springer Show.’”Asked by Mooney if her Whitaker had ever been instructed by President Trump to interfere in the special counsel’s investigation, Bryant began to answer.“I’m going to say something I left out of my testimony,” she said, “and this is going to blow everything out of the water here. Mr. Trump actually called me and whispered to me ——”Mooney interrupted: “I’m being told that the Bezos pics have actually come out at this very moment,” he said, vowing to devote the rest of the program to the photos.A sketch set at the Virginia State Capitol began with Thompson addressing a group of politicians there. “So we’re all in agreement that the lieutenant governor should be encouraged to step down,” he said, adding:One more quick thing before we get out of here. As you all know, earlier this week, our governor admitted to wearing blackface in college as part of a costume. And then later the attorney general. It’s extremely embarrassing to the state, and as chair of the ethics committee, I have to ask: Has anybody else worn blackface in college?One by one, the elected officials posed oblivious questions as each confessed to having worn blackface.“Does it count if you did it all the way back in the ’80s?” Strong asked.“No, of course not,” Mikey Day answered. “It was funny and cool in the ’80s.”Thompson corrected them both. “No, no, I’m going to stop you right there, Phil,” he said. “It does still count, and it was never funny or cool.”Mooney asked, “What if you wore the blackface as a tribute, like an homage to your hero?”“Who was your hero?” Thompson said.“Al Jolson,” Mooney answered.Returning to an idea it introduced in December, “S.N.L.” offered another installment of “Them Trumps,” in which the first family’s life is presented like the Fox drama “Empire,” and the president is Darius Trump (Thompson).In this episode, Darius Trump is being sped by limousine to his State of the Union address, telling the other passengers in the car that he will push back against the special counsel’s investigation.“This is America,” Thompson declares, “and even though I’m black ——”As police lights become visible in the rear window, he is interrupted by an aide played by Halsey, the evening’s mononymous host and musical guest.“O.K., we’re getting pulled over,” she says.“Oh, yeah, I knew that was coming,” Thompson says under his breath.A sketch titled “Women of Congress” started off as if it were going to be a satire of “Charlie’s Angels”: Nancy Pelosi (McKinnon) leads an action-packed team of female politicians who don’t often get the spotlight on “S.N.L.,” including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (Melissa Villaseñor), Maxine Waters (Jones), Kyrsten Sinema (Strong), Ilhan Omar (Ego Nwodim), Ann McLane Kuster (Aidy Bryant), Abigail Spanberger (Heidi Gardner) and Rashida Tlaib (Halsey).Then, shortly after its opening credits, it ended. Well, maybe another time, ladies.At the “Weekend Update” desk, the anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che continued to riff on the political scandals that have roiled Virginia over the past several days:Che:You know, making jokes about the news can get a little redundant for me. But every so often, you see a picture of a governor in blackface and I’m like, This’ll be fun. So first, the governor of Virginia admitted to wearing blackface in college for a Michael Jackson costume — by the way, making it the least accurate Michael Jackson costume possible. That would be crazy enough, but then the attorney general was like, “You, too? Blackface is my jam.” And then Liam Neeson was like, “Blackface? Hold my beer. I didn’t want to bring this up ever before, but I was trying to kill a black dude with a baseball bat. Anyhoo, so my movie comes out Friday.”Jost:Virginia Governor Ralph Northam is still refusing to resign after a racist photo from his yearbook surfaced. O.K., but if it was in a yearbook, how bad could it be? [The photograph is shown onscreen.] Oh. O.K. So, very bad. I knew it was a yearbook, but I didn’t know the year was 1870.A bit later, Jost added:Democrats are now calling for Northam to resign, but the second in line is embroiled in now two sexual assault scandals, and the third in line also did blackface. So at this point, maybe Virginia should take a cue from the Oscars and just go without a governor this year. Or they could just come full circle and make it Governor Kevin Hart.When Chris Redd, Jones, Thompson and Nwodim came on stage to celebrate Black History Month and pay homage to previous cast members like Garrett Morris, Eddie Murphy and Ellen Cleghorne, were you expecting a totally sincere tribute?The segment took a satirical turn with the entrance of Mooney, a white man, who claimed he wanted to support his co-stars but kept interrupting to explain black history to them.“Did you know African-American contributions to entertainment didn’t start with ‘Saturday Night Live’?” Mooney asked to their chagrin.“‘To Sir With Love’ was one of the best movies of the ’60s,” he added. “America was surprised to see a black leading man. But we always knew what we were capable of.”Addressing the other performers on the stage, Jones asked: “Did he say, ‘We’? He said, ‘We.’”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Patricia CohenGavin de Becker, Jeff Bezos’ longtime security chief, may run his own consulting firm, write books, operate a private luxury terminal at Los Angeles International Airport and develop threat-assessment tools.But he is really selling only one thing: peace of mind.For more than four decades, Mr. de Becker, 64, has counseled the United States government, law enforcement departments, thousands of celebrity clients and countless readers on how to ward off threats and stay safe in a scary world.His most recent case was for Mr. Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, who asked him to find out how American Media Inc., which publishes The National Enquirer, had obtained private intimate pictures of Mr. Bezos and his girlfriend, Lauren Sanchez.[Mr. Bezos’ claim brought intrigue and politics to The Enquirer’s exposure of his extramarital affair.]In a blog post on Medium on Thursday, Mr. Bezos said David J. Pecker, the chief executive of A.M.I., was trying to use the photos to blackmail him and deter him — and the news outlet he owns, The Washington Post — from investigating allegations that The Enquirer’s coverage of his affair was politically motivated.Mr. Bezos said he had asked Mr. de Becker “to proceed with whatever budget he needed.” Those are words that could inspire any employee. But Mr. de Becker has made the security of others his life’s work.His own childhood was full of the violence and fear that he is now paid to shield others from. Mr. de Becker has written that his mother, a heroin addict, regularly beat him and his sister, and shot his stepfather. She committed suicide when he was 16.He then moved in with the family of a friend from Beverly Hills High School, Miguel Ferrer, the son of the actor José Ferrer and the singer Rosemary Clooney. Ms. Clooney later gave him a job as her road manager. He went on to work as Elizabeth Taylor’s assistant. (Another close friend was the actress Carrie Fisher; he gave a eulogy at a memorial service in 2017 for Ms. Fisher and her actress mother, Debbie Reynolds, who died a day apart.)In an interview with The New York Times in 1997, Mr. de Becker said his experience with Taylor had led him to understand the perils of celebrity and the “marketing of human beings.”He has been enmeshed ever since. He has investigated stalkers for stars like Olivia Newton-John and Cher. He supervised security for public figures visiting President Ronald Reagan and his family at the White House. He worked with members of the family of Ronald L. Goldman when they sued O. J. Simpson over Mr. Goldman’s 1994 killing at the home of Mr. Simpson’s former wife. And he helped Bill and Camille Cosby when they received threatening letters after their son’s 1997 murder.For most people seeking Mr. de Becker’s advice, they can buy peace of mind for a few dollars with a paperback copy of his best seller, a book that Oprah Winfrey has gushed over, “The Gift of Fear.”For those who can afford it, there is a more hands-on option. Private Suite, the royal blue refuge Mr. de Becker created for wealthy travelers going through Los Angeles International Airport, get their own private suites, bathrooms and bag screeners for a $4,500 annual fee.“It typically takes 2,200 footsteps from car seat to plane seat,” the website boasts. “For members of the Private Suite, it’s 70 footsteps. And they are all peaceful footsteps.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byMediatorBy Jim RutenbergEven by the tweeting habits of the 45th president of the United States, it was a puzzler.Until you examined it. Then it started to make sense.A Twitter post on Sunday night showed Mr. Trump — in the middle of the longest federal government shutdown in American history — reveling in the lurid revelations surrounding the impending divorce of Jeff Bezos and his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie Bezos.In attacking the founder and chief executive of Amazon, President Trump praised The National Enquirer for publishing an article in its Jan. 28 edition with the all-caps headline: “BEZOS’ DIVORCE! THE CHEATING PHOTOS THAT ENDED HIS MARRIAGE.”In the same tweet — which made use of the sarcasm and schoolyard-style nicknaming that has endeared him to his base of supporters — the president saw fit to insult The Washington Post, the newspaper Mr. Bezos has owned since 2013.“So sorry to hear the news about Jeff Bozo being taken down by a competitor whose reporting, I understand, is far more accurate than the reporting in his lobbyist newspaper, the Amazon Washington Post.”Mr. Trump has attacked Mr. Bezos, Amazon and the newspaper since his presidential campaign, suggesting in the most un-Republican of ways — and falsely — that Mr. Bezos uses the newspaper as a lobbying arm to stave off higher taxes and antitrust enforcement for Amazon. To hammer home his unfounded theory, the president has referred to the paper as the Amazon Washington Post more than a dozen times since 2015, although Mr. Bezos, not the company, is the owner.That Mr. Trump would slap a childish sobriquet on a man he perceives as a threat is not news. (See Schiff, Adam, whose name the president spun into a vulgarity in a November tweet.) Nor is it news that he went after The Post — a newspaper that has been a thorough and aggressive chronicler of his presidency and the various investigations it has drawn.The news contained in the tweet on Sunday was something that, at first glance, may not seem like news at all: his praise for The Enquirer.Sure, The Enquirer turned itself into an effective cheering squad and opposition research shop for Mr. Trump before, during and after the presidential campaign. As part of the effort, the tabloid’s owner, American Media Inc., arranged to effectively silence Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump, with a $150,000 payout. And David J. Pecker, the chairman of American Media, was famously close to Mr. Trump.Emphasis on “was.”In recent weeks, Mr. Pecker has emerged as a cooperating witness in the federal investigation that prosecutors in the Southern District of New York are pursuing into the schemes to pay six figures to Ms. McDougal and Stormy Daniels, another woman whose story of an affair with Mr. Trump was buried by the company.In the Sunday-night tweet, Mr. Trump was effectively vouching for the credibility of Mr. Pecker and his newspaper — whose name in the Trump era hasn’t exactly been equated with accuracy. To wit, Hillary Clinton is still alive, proving that The Enquirer’s campaign-year reports of her imminent death were a bit of an exaggeration.Mr. Pecker’s word is of high value to prosecutors — and highly dangerous to Mr. Trump.Mr. Pecker provided vital corroboration for the story told by Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, when he pleaded guilty last year to arranging the payments to Ms. Daniels and Ms. McDougal.Mr. Cohen said he had arranged them with the full knowledge that they were equivalent to illegal campaign disbursements, because they were intended to help Mr. Trump win the election. He also said he had made the payments at Mr. Trump’s direction, essentially accusing his former boss of being the driving force behind the whole thing.In December, Mr. Cohen was sentenced to three years in prison on those charges and others. In a court filing provided ahead of that sentencing, the New York prosecutors disclosed the extent of American Media’s cooperation. The company’s willingness to help is why there have been no charges against those involved with the running of the tabloid, prosecutors said.The cooperation of American Media officers was highly significant, because Mr. Cohen made for a flawed witness. His long track record of lies meant anything he said to law enforcement officials would require corroboration, if it were to be of any real value.After months of public denials that the payment to Ms. McDougal had been coordinated with Mr. Trump or Mr. Cohen, American Media flipped the script, telling prosecutors that it had coughed up the cash “in cooperation, consultation and concert with, and at the request and suggestion of, one or more members or agents of” Mr. Trump’s campaign. The publisher also explained why it had done so — so that Ms. McDougal “did not publicize damaging allegations” and “thereby influence that election.”Further placing Mr. Trump at the center of the scheme, American Media told prosecutors that all the way back in August 2015, Mr. Pecker had met with Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen and “offered to help deal with negative stories about that presidential candidate’s relationships with women by, among other things, assisting the campaign in identifying such stories so they could be purchased and their publication avoided.” Mr. Cohen was Mr. Trump’s point man in the effort.That helped bolster the argument that Mr. Trump was effectively an unindicted co-conspirator, making Mr. Cohen, in Trump parlance — as well as that of Al Capone — “a rat.”That’s why the unreported speculation on cable news and social media last week that The Enquirer’s coverage of Mr. Bezos had been cooked up between Mr. Trump and American Media seemed out of whack to those of us who have covered the story.If facts come to light confirming that such a collaboration existed, it will be another jaw-dropper of a story. But for now, sans evidence, it seems that The Enquirer was fulfilling its traditional role of digging up dirt on the rich and famous when it went after Mr. Bezos.The president had other reasons to compliment the paper, however. American Media’s agreement with prosecutors extends for three years — and Mr. Pecker, as we’ve reported, is sitting on decades of Trump dirt that it refrained from publishing during the campaign. That means that he remains someone the president may want to keep on his good side, despite their recent differences. It’s worth noting that Mr. Trump has not publicly called Mr. Pecker a “co-rat,” at least so far.And there is this key dictum of Mr. Trump’s brand of politics: The enemy of my enemy is my friend, if only for a news cycle.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe conversationAnd it’s got a little bit of everything.By Gail Collins and Bret StephensMs. Collins and Mr. Stephens are opinion columnists. They converse every other week.Gail Collins: Bret, in honor of Valentine’s Day, I’m going to give you the gift of deciding what current event we should start off with. Virginia? Jeff Bezos? Trump investigations? Supreme Court? Rapidly exploding population of Democratic presidential candidates?Bret Stephens: Oh, Gail — that’s the most wonkishly romantic gesture I’ve ever heard. Maybe we should talk about Bezos, because it involves a lot of double entendres and it reads like the next installment in the E.L. James series. Let’s call it “50 Shades Richer.” Billionaires! Sex! Political intrigue! Allegations of blackmail! And a storybook villain named David Pecker, which is a name worthy of a Charles Dickens character.Gail: The Bezos story does have everything, including Donald Trump, whose great pals at The National Enquirer got hold of, um, embarrassing pictures Bezos exchanged with his girlfriend. Then according to Bezos — who’s the owner of The Washington Post — Pecker’s team threatened to make them public unless he said the National Enquirer’s stories about his sex life weren’t politically motivated.Several thoughts here. One is that even if you’re a super-billionaire, texting a “below the belt selfie” is a bad plan. But that aside, it seems as if Bezos has been handling the whole thing well. And third: Everything sleazy always seems to wind up with a Trump connection.Bret: Yes, Bezos has dealt with it brilliantly. It helps — how shall I put this delicately? — that his pride got the better of his embarrassment, and that there was nothing embarrassing about his pride.Gail: O.K., that’s a quote to remember.Bret: It also helps that Bezos has the financial means and journalistic tools to get to the bottom of the hacking. I don’t know if the government did the hacking — the truth is probably prosaic, but Pecker’s friendship with Trump raises an eyebrow — but if it did it would be a scandal for the ages.Gail: In an age when it’s hard to ignore any big political scandal, we’re going to be reminded of this one every time we see a package from Amazon, which is approximately every three waking minutes of the day.Bret: Even now the connections are tantalizing. Why is Pecker “apoplectic” about Bezos’ investigation into who leaked the story to the Enquirer and whether the leak was politically motivated? And how might the potential withdrawal of legal immunity that Pecker obtained last year in connection with his handling of Trump’s hush money payments to his mistresses affect the Southern District’s investigation of Trump’s probable violations of campaign-finance laws?Going forward, I think we need to start describing all of these ties as the Axis of Pecker. Just saying.Gail: Pecker politics definitely tops anything else we can possibly talk about. Still, I have to ask you about Virginia. You wrote a very powerful column taking the governor’s side. I wonder if that’s what convinced him to refuse to resign.Bret: Thanks, though I think he had made up his mind before my column appeared.Gail: But we may differ on this blackface thing. I came from a pretty conservative background but I can’t think of ever seeing anybody at my college putting shoe polish on their face or a sheet over their head under the theory that it would make them look cool. And Ralph Northam was in medical school! I know medical students aren’t all the omni-dedicated healers we saw on “E.R.” But good grief.Bret: I don’t know if we really differ. But I think context and intention matter. Billy Crystal did “blackface” for a Sammy Davis Jr. impression, and I don’t think Crystal is racist in any respect. Jimmy Fallon, Jimmy Kimmel and Sarah Silverman, to name a few boldface names, have all done blackface. If we’re going to start excommunicating people from public life for this, we’re going to destroy a lot of people who almost surely intended no harm.Gail: Yeah, but I don’t remember Billy Crystal doing his act with a guy wearing a sheet.Bret: That’s true. And I think that’s in a different league in terms of offensiveness. But again, I think we need to better understand the context, whether it was connected to a pattern of behavior, and whether it was ever repeated. And again, we are talking about an incident from 35 years ago followed by an admirable life without any hint of racial bias.Right now, Northam’s real moral jeopardy is that he has contradicted himself and is doing a duck-and-cover move. He has a good opportunity to rise above it, first by clarifying how exactly that photo ended up on his yearbook page — and whether he’s one of the people in the picture, as he now claims he isn’t — and then by explaining why the casual racism of a past generation mustn’t be communicated to the present.Gail: I do find it hard to believe he looked at that picture and said: “Who are these people? How did they get in my yearbook?” He’d be a gone goose now if the Legislature wasn’t busy talking about trying to impeach the lieutenant governor over some terrible allegations of sexual assault.Did you know Virginia has, for all practical purposes, a one-term limit for governors? I’m wondering if that has anything to do with all these crises.There was a time when I thought term limits were a great idea. But I’ve cooled on it. When you’ve got a politician who isn’t going to be able to run for re-election, you’ve got a politician spending a whole lot of time planning how to get the next job. Plus you get a lot of … strange people. Rest my case.Bret: Well, we agree on term limits. Let’s switch topics to oversight and investigations. I’m as eager as anyone to see what’s in Trump’s tax returns. But how do Democrats handle this to make sure it doesn’t redound to Trump’s political benefit?Gail: You mean how do they avoid having so many people investigating him the public begins to feel sorry for him?Bret: I mean, going down every rabbit hole means that you are going to come up empty many times. That can do as much to obscure criminal behavior as it can to expose it, and to desensitize the public to the significance of truly scandalous disclosures when they are merely bobbing in the sea with not-so-scandalous ones.It doesn’t help when cable TV is obsessing about this stuff 24/7. I think the investigations would be better helped if news about them came out only once every other week, with Representative Adam Schiff or someone like him saying: Here’s the stuff we’ve learned, here’s why it matters, here’s what we’re going to look into next and here’s why.Gail: Well, cable TV does cover other stuff — I’m just sitting here watching CNN cover climate change in Louisiana. But the producers know what the public is obsessing about, and so do politicians. When they see their constituents these days, the first question a lot of them get isn’t “How’s the infrastructure bill doing?” It’s “What are you going to do about Trump?”Not that I’m demeaning the poor infrastructure bill.Bret: I long for the days when we could debate the merits of, say, the Davis-Bacon Act, and not the emoluments clause and how Trump is probably violating it. That said, I do think people will ultimately judge Congress by whether it’s working for them and not on political score-settling.In the meantime, it looks like we may be heading for another government shutdown. Is this really happening? I didn’t realize it was possible for an administration to commit suicide twice.Gail: This administration? Hahahahahaha.I have hope we won’t smash into another shutdown, but it’s hard to tell. Right this second it looks like it’s not happening, but it’s complicated because Trump would have to accept what’s basically a face-saver on the wall issue. And give a little bit to the Democrats, who want to reform his mean, miserable border detention policies. In a normal world, that would happen. I miss the normal world.What do you think?Bret: I think Trump’s calculation is that he can do a Groundhog’s Day in reverse: That is, shut down the government again and again, and behave worse with each successive iteration. This rallies his base while, at some point a majority of Americans will say, “Just give him his darn wall.” Or so he figures. But we’ll have to see how he reacts to the “agreement in principle” that the House and Senate seem to have reached.Gail: Don’t think Bill Murray would like us turning over his “Groundhog Day” role to Donald Trump.Bret: The alternative narrative, and the more convincing one, is that Trump has continued to play games with the livelihoods of American workers for the sake of a bit of fencing that solves nothing except his own political problems. One thing that is becoming clear is the G.O.P. campaign theme for 2020. They are going to claim Democrats are the party of socialism, open borders, nationalized health care, and an environmentalist agenda that will wind up outlawing air travel and steaks and maybe even milk, too.Gail: The Republicans are indeed ranting now about the Green New Deal, which Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and other Democrats put forward. A.O.C. did mention eliminating “emissions from cows or air travel,” but — contrary to Trump’s swipes — that was a rather lighthearted description of a perfect future rather than a part of the plan.And Trump has been playing the socialism card, but I don’t think it’s going to work. There are a number of Democrats who’d like to move toward a society that offers health care for everyone, free college tuition for those who can’t afford to pay, and federal work programs for the unemployed — paid for by much higher taxes on the rich. Most Americans want the same things. If the Democrats are smart about the way they present the programs, things should be fine.I am aware, Bret, that this sort of talk causes you great pain. That’s why we’re in different political camps.Bret: It causes me great pain because I’m attached to no party: I can’t support the Trumpian G.O.P. but I can’t support the Democrats, either, as long as they’re repudiating their belief in traditional liberalism for the sake of an anticapitalist, ruinously expensive policy agenda. I would love to hear a Democrat say, as Hillary Clinton did, we are not Denmark! And I fear the Democrats’ new progressivism will so turn off voters that they’ll re-elect Trump as the better of two bad alternatives.All of which is to say, we’ll have plenty to converse about in the months ahead. And maybe we might even disagree a bit more.Gail: Amen.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Edmund Lee, Andrew Ross Sorkin and Ben ProtessThe National Enquirer, the supermarket tabloid that once published a photo of Elvis Presley in his coffin and later backed Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign, is for sale, the publisher said in a statement.The Enquirer, owned by American Media Inc. and led by David J. Pecker, a longtime friend of Mr. Trump’s, is likely to have a buyer in a matter of days, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity to describe private negotiations.Mr. Pecker is said to have helped Mr. Trump’s candidacy through American Media’s deal to buy a story from Karen McDougal, a Playboy model who said she had an affair with the president. The company acquired her story for $150,000 and never published it, following a practice known in the tabloid business as catch-and-kill. Federal prosecutors from the Southern District of New York gave Mr. Pecker an immunity deal in its investigation of the arrangement.Prosecutors identified the $150,000 payment to Ms. McDougal as a political contribution made in violation of campaign finance law. Under a non-prosecution deal, American Media affirmed that it had made the payment to “influence the election.”That agreement, signed in September, stipulated that American Media “shall commit no crimes whatsoever” for three years, and that if it did, the company “shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which this office has knowledge.”The deal has put the company in a difficult position, now that federal prosecutors have started investigating claims by Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, that he had been threatened by American Media, according to two people with knowledge of the investigation.The inquiry into a possible attempt by American Media to pressure Mr. Bezos is still in an early phase, and Mr. Bezos is scheduled to meet with federal prosecutors in New York as early as this week to discuss their review of his claim, a person with knowledge of the matter said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss an open investigation.The principal owner of American Media, the hedge fund Chatham Asset Management, led by Anthony Melchiorre, pushed Mr. Pecker to sell the tabloid after it found itself in the cross hairs of the federal investigation and at the receiving end of Mr. Bezos’ wrath. Mr. Melchiorre no longer saw an upside in being associated with The Enquirer, the people familiar with the matter said, and the tabloid’s financial losses provided further motivation for a sale.The Jan. 28 edition of The Enquirer, which hit supermarket racks on Jan. 10, ran an 11-page story on Mr. Bezos headlined “Bezos’ Divorce! The Cheating Photos That Ended His Marriage.” The accompanying article included furtively snapped photographs of Mr. Bezos in the company of his girlfriend, Lauren Sanchez, a former host of the Fox television show “So You Think You Can Dance.”Mr. Bezos, who is also the owner of The Washington Post, has been a target of Mr. Trump. In a tweet that was posted in the aftermath of The Enquirer’s report, the president simultaneously praised the tabloid while tossing an insulting nickname in the direction of Mr. Bezos, the world’s richest man.“So sorry to hear the news about Jeff Bozo being taken down by a competitor whose reporting, I understand, is far more accurate than the reporting in his lobbyist newspaper, the Amazon Washington Post,” he wrote in the Jan. 13 tweet. “Hopefully the paper will soon be placed in better & more responsible hands!”Weeks after the tabloid report was published, Mr. Bezos fired back, accusing American Media of “extortion and blackmail” in a wide-ranging blog post that questioned whether The Enquirer’s story about him was politically motivated. He also accused American Media of threatening to publish lewd photos of him, unless he publicly stated that the tabloid’s reporting on him was not motivated by political concerns.Federal prosecutors looking into Mr. Bezos’ accusation have yet to determine whether there are chargeable offenses. If they move forward, it could jeopardize American Media’s agreement in the case centered on the company’s involvement in the Trump campaign.The federal investigation into American Media’s work on behalf of the Trump campaign resulted in a guilty plea from Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen, who said he had asked the company to pay Ms. McDougal at the president’s direction. In a separate hush-money deal, Mr. Cohen said, he helped arrange a payment to the adult film actress Stormy Daniels, who had also alleged that she had an affair with Mr. Trump.After the likely sale of The Enquirer, American Media will be paid a service fee as part of a shared-services agreement under which the new owner can save on printing costs, the people familiar with the possible deal said.In a statement, Mr. Pecker said that American Media had shifted its emphasis away from its tabloid publications, a group that includes Star, to its glossy magazines, such as Us Weekly and Men’s Journal, and various multimedia ventures. “Because of this focus, we feel the future opportunities with the tabloids can be best exploited by a different ownership,” the statement said.Chatham could not immediately be reached for comment. American Media did not respond to a request for comment. News of the likely sale was first reported by The Washington Post.For many years leading up to the 2016 election, The Enquirer seemed all but irrelevant, a relic of a bygone time that had little to do with a media environment dominated by social media platforms and websites geared to ever-quickening news cycles.Mr. Trump’s presidential candidacy put it back in the limelight. Here was a tabloid creature at the center of the national conversation, and The Enquirer rose to the occasion by puffing up his candidacy and pillorying his rivals.As the campaign heated up, all-caps headlines shouted at shoppers from eye-level racks in supermarket checkout lanes.When Senator Ted Cruz of Texas looked like Mr. Trump’s most formidable opponent in his quest for the Republican nomination, The Enquirer published a false story headlined “Ted Cruz Father Linked to J.F.K. Assassination!” In another story aimed at the senator, the tabloid published unsubstantiated allegations of his supposed extramarital affairs.The Enquirer also went after Hillary Clinton. While Mr. Trump repeatedly questioned her stamina, the tabloid echoed the theme in false story after false story: “Hillary Clinton Brain Cancer Drama!”; “Hillary: Six Months to Live!”In another assist to the mogul turned politician, Mr. Pecker kept his staff from making use of the tips and story files it had amassed on Mr. Trump going back to the 1980s.The bond between the candidate and the tabloid also led American Media, in the campaign’s final months, to buy and bury the story of the alleged affair between Mr. Trump and Ms. McDougal. To pull it off, American Media acquired the rights in exchange for $150,000 and a commitment to promote Ms. McDougal’s career as a fitness specialist.Mr. Trump has been a longtime public supporter of Mr. Pecker and the tabloid he has overseen since 1999. In a 2013 tweet, Mr. Trump promoted the media executive as a possible leader of Time Inc.: “David Pecker would be a brilliant choice as CEO of TIME Magazine — nobody could bring it back like David!”During the campaign, after The Enquirer focused on Mr. Cruz, Mr. Trump denied having anything to do with the story, but said of the tabloid, “They actually have a very good record of being right.”Jim Rutenberg and William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON — Jeff Bezos understands survival instincts.As a hedge fund refugee, he conjured Amazon, the world’s biggest store, by tapping into our hunter-gatherer instincts, the compulsion to collect more stuff with less effort.Amazon became “the Prince of Darkness for retail,” Scott Galloway writes in “The Four: The Hidden DNA of Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google,” by exploiting our “serious mojo for stuff, as survival went to the cave man who had the most twigs, had the right rocks to crack stuff open with, and got the most colorful mud to draw images on walls so his descendants knew when to plant crops, or what dangerous animals to avoid.”So, of course, Bezos has finely honed survival instincts himself. This is a season when socialism is chic and billionaires are reviled as lame, immoral, greedy, lying and an Orange Menace (if he’s actually a billionaire). Yet the richest dude on earth has managed to come through a traumatic week inspiring admiration.He survived a spectacular attempt by David Pecker to ruin him in January with a National Enquirer story revealing his affair with his married neighbor, Lauren Sanchez, a TV personality. It was humiliating for him and his wife, MacKenzie, but Bezos was able to bring his marriage to an end with a modicum of dignity and little apparent damage to shareholder value.In our universe governed by algorithms, we can forget our nerdy overlords are actually human. Bezos’ sexts were brimming with romance: “I want to talk to you and plan with you. Listen and laugh.” Or another about his yearning to wake up next to her, have coffee and read the paper — The Washington Post, presumably.This past week, Pecker and his thugs upgraded to blackmail, threatening to print more sexts and louche pics that Bezos and Sanchez had exchanged unless Bezos made a statement in the press rebutting the idea that the Enquirer story was politically motivated.Again, Bezos’ superior survival instincts kicked in. He refused.Pecker is up to his slimy neck in politically motivated messes. He had to make a deal with prosecutors after he helped deliver his pal Donald Trump’s hush payments to the Playboy model and the porn star. The Dickensian-named head of American Media Incorporated, The Enquirer’s owner, was “apoplectic,” according to Bezos’ post in Medium, about his investigation into who leaked the texts.“I prefer to stand up, roll this log over, and see what crawls out,” Bezos wrote.And thus a P.R. debacle turned into a triumph. Besides unbridled consumerism, Americans love nothing more than seeing a bully like Pecker get kicked in the groin.Bezos may be a key player in the Silicon Valley scheme to destroy privacy and ratchet up excess in the interest of mammonism, but for the moment, he’s a hero.“If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion,” he wrote, “how many people can?”As Galloway told me: “The second-worst decision in the last 12 months was the world’s wealthiest man sending out pictures of his genitalia. The worst decision was A.M.I. deciding to attempt to blackmail the wealthiest man in the world via email. Dumb and dumber.“A.M.I. went out of business this week. They just don’t know it. They have a megalodon after them.”Galloway thinks that Bezos vs. Pecker will mimic Thiel vs. Gawker: “The same hubris infected Gawker, wrapping yourself in the First Amendment as an excuse for depraved behavior and ruining people’s lives. That dog will no longer hunt.”Bezos said there may be another rotten international conspiracy akin to the Russians and the Trump campaign — this one connecting Pecker, Trump and the Saudis.Just before Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman came to America, Pecker — who wanted the Saudis to help finance the purchase of Time magazine — published an absurd piece of checkout-aisle propaganda, a glossy magazine treating the prince like Beyoncé and calling his repressive, misogynist nation the “Magic Kingdom.” It highlighted the special relationship between the Saudis and Trump, who was also lavished with puff pieces in The Enquirer during the 2016 campaign.The crown prince has formed a tight bond with princeling Jared Kushner, one that proves ever more embarrassing as the evidence piles up that bin Salman ordered the horrendous murder of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi. The Times’s Mark Mazzetti revealed that the psycho prince told an aide in 2017 that he would use “a bullet” on Khashoggi if the writer did not stop his critiques. Saudi Foreign Affairs Minister Adel al-Jubeir told reporters Friday, “Mistakes happen.”Coining the word of the year, Bezos said that owning The Post is a “complexifier” for him, suggesting that the paper’s unrelenting coverage of the Khashoggi killing might have aggravated his testy relations with Trump.The Post reported that Michael Sanchez, Lauren’s brother who says he is also her manager — and who is close to Roger Stone and Carter Page — said he was told by several people at A.M.I. that The Enquirer wanted to do “a takedown to make Trump happy.”The toxic triangle of Pecker, the Saudis and Trumpworld has yet to unspool. But Galloway is right when he notes that, “despite the gross idolatry of billionaire innovators, he is an incredibly impressive person. You can get ‘The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel’ or Nespresso pods on demand.”I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionKara SwisherAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]After multiple conversations this week with Amazon officials, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo wanted to show them just how much support for the company there really was in New York City.So after those calls — including one with the Amazon chief executive, Jeff Bezos — the governor’s top aide, Melissa DeRosa, spoke with the president of the city’s pre-eminent business group, the Partnership for New York City, about how to follow up. They quickly settled on a strategy for a letter addressed to Mr. Bezos that would appear as a full-page newspaper advertisement.Time was of the essence.By Wednesday, emails began flying; phones were ringing seemingly everywhere, from union halls and public housing apartments to executive suites of companies like Goldman Sachs and Warby Parker and the offices of local congressional representatives.In some cases, the pitch came from Ms. DeRosa. In many others, it came from the president of the partnership, Kathryn Wylde, whose group paid for the ad.“I wanted the letter to symbolize that New Yorkers of diverse backgrounds know how to work together,” said Ms. Wylde, who came up with the idea for the letter.Others, particularly businesses in or near Long Island City, Queens, where Amazon canceled plans for a headquarters last month, learned about the impending letter from Elizabeth Lusskin, the president of the Long Island City Partnership.“The idea was to put together a diverse range of voices in a short amount of time,” said Ms. Lusskin, who was asked to help on Thursday morning. “There are many, many more people who would have, if asked, been part of this. We were trying to get together a broad range.”Six people described the efforts to create the letter, but some would only do so on the condition of anonymity. One person said the call to Mr. Bezos took place on Tuesday; the person said on Friday that Mr. Bezos had seen the ad.Unions that had not previously expressed a position on Amazon signed on, including the New York branch of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the Hotel Trades Council, which represents hotel workers, and unions representing teachers and hospital workers.“Every worker has the right to organize, but we know that having a job is essential to that process,” George Gresham, the president of 1199 Service Employees International Union, said in a statement.Not every union that got a call decided to add its name, according to two union officials who said Ms. DeRosa, along with Ms. Wylde, had reached out. Several people said they had received a call to add their names to the letter with only a few hours to decide whether to sign; others were given a little more time.A spokeswoman for the governor, Dani Lever, disputed the union officials’ account, saying that no one Ms. DeRosa called had said no.By Thursday afternoon, more than 70 signatories had joined, including public housing tenant leaders, the local N.A.A.C.P. chapter, pastors, as well as businesses in Queens.There was no evidence that the letter, which appeared as a full-page ad in The New York Times on Friday, had changed Amazon’s decision to abandon the deal, in which the company promised to create up to 40,000 jobs in Long Island City in exchange for a state grant of $500 million and state and city tax breaks that would have eventually totaled more than $2 billion.On Friday, the governor told WNYC’s Brian Lehrer that the company had not conveyed any change of heart. “I have no reason to believe that Amazon is reconsidering,” Mr. Cuomo said. “Would I like them to? Certainly.”But the letter may have tempered some of the political opposition to the Amazon plan; as the contents of the letter and breadth of support became known, many of the voices of opposition grew silent or appeared to soften their messages.The local elected officials who had been most critical of the deal — State Senator Michael Gianaris and City Councilman Jimmy Van Bramer — declined to comment in response to Mr. Cuomo’s efforts to lure the company back.State Senator Leroy Comrie, a Queens Democrat who recently replaced Mr. Gianaris as the nominee to the obscure but powerful Public Authorities Control Board (it would have had veto power over the Amazon deal), issued a statement on Friday that stressed his willingness to work with Amazon.“I was disappointed in Amazon’s retreat rather than choosing to work together to address the concerns of the affected communities, and ensure the best outcome for New York taxpayers,” Mr. Comrie said. “If Amazon chooses to come back I would be glad to work with them.”Even the office of Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, whose surprise win last year helped galvanize resistance to the company, and whose opposition to Amazon led to a Times Square billboard blaming her for the pullout, seemed to be more measured in its comments.“If elected officials spent half as much time talking to the community as to Jeff Bezos, I think we would already have come to an agreement that works for everybody,” Corbin Trent, a spokesman for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, said.Mr. Cuomo, in the radio interview, sought to diminish the importance of Amazon’s most strident opponents; he called Mr. Van Bramer and Mr. Gianaris “irrelevant,” adding that “there are other ways that the state can get it done. I told Amazon that.”The governor was even more dismissive of Make the Road New York, a coalition representing minority and working-class New Yorkers that opposed the Amazon deal, saying he did not know what the group was.The group was one of 78 associations that co-signed their own letter, released on Friday, reiterating their opposition to any economic development plan that “excludes investments in local communities,” citing what they said was “Amazon’s predatory practices.”Mr. Cuomo was particularly unpersuaded.“This is a blow to the state, and I’ll do everything I can to reverse it,” he said. “You punch until you hear the bell, and the bell hasn’t sounded.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - American Media Inc (AMI) said on Thursday it was selling its National Enquirer tabloid to James Cohen, whose family owns a magazine distributor and used to own the Hudson chain of airport newsstands.The National Enquirer had admitted to paying hush money to help U.S. President Donald Trump get elected and been accused of attempting to blackmail Amazon founder Jeff Bezos.The weekly tabloid, along with two of its sister publications, will be purchased by Cohen. The Washington Post reported the sale was for $100 million. The companies did not respond to Reuters' request for comment on the price.Cohen's family owns a U.S. magazine and book distributor, Hudson News Distributors. In 2008, the family sold the airport retail and newsstand business to Dufry AG.The deal comes a week after AMI said it was looking at ""strategic options"" for the National Enquirer as well as for the Globe and National Examiner brands.The sale is expected to reduce AMI's debt to $355 million.Last week, the New York Times reported that owners of the National Enquirer were in talks to sell the tabloid to California-based billionaire Ronald Burkle.Paul Pope, one of the heirs of the National Enquirer founder, Generoso Pope Jr., had also been in the list of bidders, according to media reports.On Tuesday, Pope dropped his bid to buy the supermarket tabloid from American Media, the New York Post reported.Over its 92-year history, the National Enquirer has enticed readers in supermarket checkout lines with sensational headlines and photos about celebrities. The tabloid's website says it has an audience of 5 million.Earlier in February, Bezos, the chief executive of Amazon.com Inc, accused the publication of trying to blackmail him with the threat of publishing intimate photos. AMI has defended its reporting on Bezos' affair with Lauren Sanchez, a former television anchor. (Reporting by Arjun Panchadar and Vibhuti Sharma in Bengaluru, Additional reporting by Aishwarya Venugopal; Editing by James Emmanuel and Peter Cooney)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGovernor Cuomo is right to try to resuscitate a deal that could help New York.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.It is heartening to hear that Gov. Andrew Cuomo was at least able to get Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder, on the phone.The Times reported that the governor has had “multiple phone conversations with Amazon executives, including Mr. Bezos, over the past two weeks.”The conspicuous absence of Mr. Bezos, both in public and private, during the process to bring part of his company’s new headquarters to Long Island City, Queens, was perfectly illustrative of the collapse in communication among all parties that scuttled the deal last month.There is no indication that Amazon is open to reopening talks about the project. But if a few tête-à-têtes might revive a deal worth $27 billion in potential tax revenue over the next two decades and 25,000 jobs, it’s certainly worth a try.An open letter that ran as a full-page ad in The Times on Friday, promised that Mr. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio would help shepherd the project through the community development and approval process, hopefully with far more transparency and far better communication than there was during the first go-round. In another development, State Senator Michael Gianaris of Queens, an outspoken critic of the deal, is no longer nominated to to sit on the Public Authorities Control Board, which would have the ability to deep-six any final deal. The open letter, which was signed by more than 70 unions, current and former elected officials and business and community groups, acknowledged that the public debate was more like a one-sided shouting match. “We know the public debate that followed the announcement of the Long Island City project was rough and not very welcoming,” the letter said. “Opinions are strong in New York — sometimes strident.”But vigorous democracy and vigorous capitalism should be able to coexist. That would be an important lesson for Amazon, which pressured city officials in Seattle — its hometown — to repeal a business tax for housing and homeless service.Those opposed to the New York project — a distinct minority of people in the city and the state — were not without cause for rage. The subways are rickety, the schools are dysfunctional, the rent is too damn high and getting higher. And the deal included $3 billion in tax benefits for a trillion-dollar corporation.But progressives shouldn’t stand athwart progress, yelling stop. It’s not like that $3 billion can now be applied to city needs, as some seemed to think; it vanished along with the $27 billion in tax revenue that could, in fact, have helped address city needs. If New York has any hope of remedying its problems, it will need a robust tax base spread across many sectors. Real-world progressive governance requires revenue. It would be good to see the governor and the mayor working the phones with Amazon. Let’s hope they’re also talking with their constituents — friend and foe alike — to make sure that a solid foundation is ready if the company decides to reconsider.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this editorial referred imprecisely to GovernorCuomo and Mayor de Blasio's outreach to Amazon. An open letter toAmazon that was published as an advertisement in The Times on Fridaypromised that the mayor and governor would help shepherd the projectthrough the approval process, they themselves did not make thatpromise in the letter.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byElizabeth Warren’s brushback pitch was aimed at candidates rich enough to self-fund their campaigns. But this kind of binary thinking is a slight to history. By Timothy EganContributing Opinion Writer What would you do if you could spend a billion dollars a week on any cause, political movement or society-improving innovation of your choice and still have almost $20 billion left over after a year?Such is the happy problem that may soon be facing MacKenzie Bezos, one-half of the richest couple on earth. She and her husband, the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, recently announced plans to divorce after 25 years of marriage.With half of the family fortune, Ms. Bezos would be worth about $70 billion, solidifying a title she may already hold — the richest woman in the world.We don’t know her politics or her intentions. The Bezoses have spent money supporting same-sex marriage, early education and help for homeless families. Jeff Bezos is a quirky libertarian, and his Washington Post has been a scrappy counter to a president who has made a punching bag out of the Constitution.But it’s crucial that the Democratic Party, now going through another torturous fight between its soak-the-rich side and the progressive pragmatists, remain open to enlightened people of wealth.“No to the billionaires,” Senator Elizabeth Warren said in the first days of her campaign for president. “We are the Democratic Party and that is the party of the people.”Her brushback pitch was aimed at candidates rich enough to self-fund their campaigns, like Michael Bloomberg. But this kind of binary thinking is a slight to history. The best president of the 20th century, Franklin Roosevelt, was a product of dynastic family wealth, as was John Kennedy. The Obamas, with their newfound riches from books and ventures into the entertainment industry, will soon have the kind of money to draw snark from the socialist wing of their party.And Warren may have missed the announcement of another rich guy running for president as a Democrat, the venture capitalist Andrew Yang. He’s campaigning on a plan to guarantee every American aged 18 to 64 a basic income of $1,000 a month, paid for by a new tax on companies benefiting most from automation.I know, I know: The last thing a country struggling with Neo-Gilded Age inequality needs is more influence from billionaire supercitizens. It’s bad enough that the Koch brothers bought themselves a budget-busting tax cut and an energy policy hatched in their corporate boardroom. An 85-year-old casino magnate, Sheldon Adelson, now has more influence on American foreign policy than even the secretary of state, the Koch tool Mike Pompeo.But the Kochs pay for politicians in order to enrich themselves and to gut regulations affecting the polluting industries that made them billionaires. Adelson got a similar tax windfall for the millions he put into electing Republicans, with the added benefit of controlling the State Department’s view of Israel.The progressive billionaires — Oprah Winfrey, Warren Buffett — are a different breed of fat cat. Mr. Buffett, the third-richest man in the world, has been saying “Tax me more” for years — or at least, “Tax me at the same rate as my secretary.” Like Bill Gates, who is the second-richest man in the world, he has pledged to give away the bulk of his fortune.Last year, Tom Steyer spent more than $100 million of his own money helping Democrats get elected, and he says he will drop another bundle on Senate races in 2020. Look what he got for his Democratic House: new members calling for a 70 percent tax rate on earnings over $10 million. Steyer, Gates and Buffett are going to get soaked for their political passions. And good for them.The same goes for Bloomberg. He also spent more than $100 million last year on behalf of Democrats, and ballot initiatives on gun regulations and climate change. This got him a kick in the teeth from the Warren crowd.God knows why George Soros continues to pour millions into promoting democracy abroad and going after hate speech at home. For that, he’s a target of crazed bombers and a victim of verbal poison from the likes of people such as the actor James Woods. Just a few days ago, Woods called Soros a “grizzled old Nazi prick” in a tweet. As a Hungarian Jew, Soros the boy had to hide from the Nazis.The ideal financing model is one perfected by Beto O’Rourke. He raised $80 million, without sucking up to PACs or corporate donors, and nearly knocked off the most hated man in the Senate, Ted Cruz of Texas.But we don’t live in an ideal world. Which brings us back to MacKenzie Bezos, a novelist of some acclaim. She may well follow the lead of Laurene Powell Jobs, widow of the Apple co-founder, whose political spending has been aimed at recruiting Democratic female candidates.I would bet that the time Ms. Bezos spent studying creative writing at Princeton under Toni Morrison did not make her want to build a wall or turn a blind eye to climate change. If her heart is open to benevolence for the greater good, then the least the Democrats can do is not close the door.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan).Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kaly SotoWelcome to the weekend. For much of the U.S., it will be cold and messy. Don’t despair because we have some great journalism to keep you warm.The effects of head trauma have gotten much of the attention, but huge weight gains have also damaged N.F.L. retirees._____Geneticists have begun using old bones to make sweeping claims about the distant past. But their revisions to the human story are making some scholars of prehistory uneasy._____Just over 100 years ago, the first woman was sworn into Congress. As of this month, a record 131 women are serving in the Legislature. The New York Times photographed them._____Her divorce from the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos has made this novelist, and her private life, a public fascination._____Glaciers are crucial sources of water for people and crops in Central Asia. But global warming is causing glaciers there and around the world to shrink every year.[Also read: “Reflections on Antarctica”]_____Investigative reports detail increasing pressure felt by Jennifer and Sarah Hart, who had adopted six children. At signs of trouble, they would close ranks and flee._____Restaurants have fed them for free. Banks have suspended late fees on their credit cards. And at airports, they’ve been offered hugs, encouragement and casseroles._____For her first Times review as our California restaurant critic, Tejal Rao chose Angler in San Francisco. There, the chef Joshua Skenes is showing how a seafood-rich menu can adapt to the forces of climate change, she writes._____Andrew Barth Feldman, a high school junior on Long Island, is an ardent theater fan who has been acting since he was 8. Now he’ll be leading the cast in his favorite show._____Many of us have learned that happiness is a skill and a choice._____Two male penguins are raising a baby whose gender is unknown.Find me on Twitter: @kalyTsoto, for more great reads.Advertisement"
" Immediately after the Golden Globes, winners and losers fanned out across the Beverly Hilton Hotel for various after-parties. Rachel Brosnahan, who won the best actress award for “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel,” made her way to the party hosted by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, which bestows the awards.Rachel Brosnahan, Regina King, Timothée Chalamet and Jeff Bezos partied after the awards ceremony."
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Edmund LeeThe National Enquirer, President Trump’s favorite supermarket tabloid, is about to have a new owner: James Cohen, a son of the founder of the Hudson News franchise. American Media Inc., The Enquirer’s publisher, announced the deal Thursday.The money-losing title was put up for sale several weeks ago, after its principal owner decided it no longer wanted to be associated with the magazine, according to several people familiar with the matter. The publication attracted the scrutiny of federal investigators for its role in the 2016 presidential campaign.American Media had been in talks with several potential buyers, including the California billionaire Ronald W. Burkle. After those talks fell apart last week, Mr. Cohen, whose father started the chain of Hudson News shops, swooped in to buy the troubled tabloid.As part of the deal, American Media, led by David J. Pecker, a longtime friend of Mr. Trump’s, has also agreed to sell two of its other tabloids: the Globe and the National Examiner. The Washington Post first reported the sale, which it pegged at $100 million.The principal owner of American Media, the hedge fund Chatham Asset Management, led by Anthony Melchiorre, pushed Mr. Pecker to sell The Enquirer after the publication found itself under federal investigation. Mr. Melchiorre no longer saw an upside in being associated with the tabloid, whose financial losses and falling circulation numbers provided further motivation for a sale.Mr. Pecker is said to have helped Mr. Trump’s candidacy through a deal American Media struck with Karen McDougal, a Playboy model who said she had an affair with the president. The company acquired her story for $150,000 and never published it, a practice known in the tabloid business as catch-and-kill. Federal prosecutors from the Southern District of New York gave Mr. Pecker an immunity deal in its investigation of the arrangement.American Media also signed a non-prosecution deal with federal prosecutors. As part of the agreement, the company affirmed that it had made the payment to Ms. McDougal to “influence the election.” The deal, signed in September, also stipulated that American Media “shall commit no crimes whatsoever” for three years and that, if it did, the company “shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which this office has knowledge.”That agreement put American Media in a ticklish position, now that federal prosecutors have started investigating claims by Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, that he was threatened by the company. Mr. Bezos was the subject of an 11-page Enquirer investigation headlined “Bezos’ Divorce! The Cheating Photos That Ended His Marriage.” In a lengthy blog post a month after the article appeared, Mr. Bezos accused American Media of extortion.Hudson News, founded by Mr. Cohen’s father, Robert B. Cohen, was sold to the Swiss retail company Dufry in 2008. Mr. Cohen is no longer involved in the chain of newspaper and magazine shops but sits on the board of the new parent company.The first Hudson News outlet appeared at Newark Liberty International Airport in the 1970s when Mr. Cohen’s father acquired a newsstand out of bankruptcy. In 1987, a large, brightly lit Hudson News store opened at La Guardia Airport, with hundreds of publications from around the world displayed, their covers easily visible. That setup became the standard for the chain, and there are now more than 1,000 locations.Recently, James Cohen founded a magazine company, Hudson Publishing. In 2016 he started a quarterly publication called Galerie with his wife, Lisa Fayne Cohen. Earlier this year, the magazine published a feature titled “Discover a Hamptons Dream House Filled With Modern Art.” Its subject was the Cohens’ East Hampton, N.Y., home. Ms. Fayne Cohen serves as the magazine’s editorial director.Mr. Cohen and Ms. Fayne Cohen started a serious art collection in 2009. Their condominium at the Plaza Hotel has included works by the artists Willem de Kooning, Jean Dubuffet, Hans Hofmann, Joan Mitchell, George Condo and Mark Grotjahn.In 2015 they threw a bat mitzvah for their daughter Jaclyn at a reported cost of over $1 million. The event, which took place under a tent at their home in northern New Jersey, featured the singer Nick Jonas, who performed six of his hits for a reported $300,000.Mr. Cohen, who did not respond to requests for comment, has a tabloid connection. His late sister, Claudia Cohen, was a gossip writer for both The Daily News and The New York Post. She was married to the Revlon billionaire Ronald O. Perelman.In 2014, years after Claudia Cohen’s death, Mr. Cohen was sued by her daughter Samantha Perelman and accused of edging her out of an inheritance from the Hudson News fortune. Ms. Perelman claimed her uncle had unfairly manipulated her dying grandfather to cut her out of his will.Mr. Cohen won the suit. In a statement at the time he said he had been “cruelly and wrongfully accused.”In 2012, Mr. Cohen invested in DuJour, a lifestyle quarterly published by Jason Binn, a founder of regional glossies such as Hamptons, Ocean Drive and Gotham.Mr. Cohen and Mr. Pecker, the American Media chief, have done business before. In 2011, Mr. Cohen was an investor in the company’s American edition of OK!, a British tabloid magazine.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Edmund Lee and Andrew Ross SorkinThe owners of The National Enquirer have been in talks to sell the tabloid to Ronald W. Burkle, a supermarket magnate with ties to President Bill Clinton, according to three people with direct knowledge of the negotiations.While representatives of The Enquirer, which is owned by American Media Inc., have been in negotiations with Mr. Burkle’s team, the deal could fall apart, said the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe private negotiations.Mr. Burkle, who specializes in buying distressed companies, made his initial fortune buying and selling supermarkets in California. In 1999, he helped buy the Pittsburgh Penguins hockey franchise out of bankruptcy; the team has won three Stanley Cup championships since then. In recent years, Mr. Burkle has been a regular in the gossip pages and on the A-list benefit and party circuit, hobnobbing with the likes of Madonna, U2, Sean Combs, Leonardo DiCaprio and Sarah Ferguson, the Duchess of York.Mr. Burkle and his private equity firm, Yucaipa Companies, did not initially respond to requests for comment. After news of the talks was reported by The New York Times on Thursday, a representative said Mr. Burkle and Yucaipa were not interested in The Enquirer. “Ron Burkle and Yucaipa are not buying The Enquirer,” Frank Quintero, who works at the firm, said in an email. “Furthermore, I’m told we are not in talks to buy it.”The disclosure of the talks threatened to scuttle them, leaving both sides frustrated that the news had leaked. Two people with direct knowledge of the talks said Mr. Burkle’s team was upset that news of their involvement had been made public, and they felt used by AMI. It is unclear what will happen next, but AMI was pushing to continue the talks.Mr. Burkle and David J. Pecker, American Media’s chief executive, are said to be friends and have invested in media deals together. Both backed Radar magazine, a short-lived title focused on celebrity and lifestyle that closed in 2008. In his Radar days, Mr. Burkle remained in the shadows, and Yusef Jackson, the son of the civil rights activist Jesse Jackson, was the magazine’s public face.An acquisition of The Enquirer by Mr. Burkle, a longtime Democratic donor, could raise eyebrows in Washington, given President Trump’s fondness for the tabloid, which he has praised on Twitter.The Enquirer, which loses money, drew the attention of federal prosecutors for its role in aiding Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign. Mr. Pecker was said to have helped Mr. Trump’s candidacy through a deal to buy a story from a Playboy model who said she had an affair with Mr. Trump.American Media acquired the story for $150,000 and never published it, following a tabloid industry practice known as catch-and-kill. Federal prosecutors in New York gave Mr. Pecker an immunity deal in its investigation of the arrangement.American Media’s principal owner, the hedge fund Chatham Asset Management, pressed Mr. Pecker to sell the tabloid after it wound up in investigators’ cross hairs, the people with direct knowledge of the matter said.The hedge fund’s managing partner, Anthony Melchiorre, decided there was no longer a benefit in being associated with The Enquirer. The financial losses provided further motivation for a sale.Mr. Burkle is not unfamiliar with the rough-and-tumble of tabloid culture. In 2006, he accused a New York Post gossip columnist of demanding a hush payment of hundreds of thousands of dollars to prevent the publication of items about his personal life.Years earlier, he told federal investigators that the Hollywood private detective Anthony Pellicano had demanded that Mr. Burkle pay as much as $250,000 in exchange for Mr. Pellicano’s agreeing not to investigate him. Mr. Burkle told the F.B.I. that he ultimately became friendly with Mr. Pellicano, providing him with favors.When Mr. Clinton left office in 2001, he agreed to be an adviser to Mr. Burkle’s investment firm, an arrangement with the potential to yield tens of millions of dollars for the former president. Mr. Clinton’s role at the time was to help find investment opportunities for Yucaipa and to offer the firm a sheen of credibility.Mr. Trump also calls Mr. Burkle a friend. In October 2017, at a White House event celebrating the Penguins’ Stanley Cup victory, the president praised Mr. Burkle as “a great, great negotiator,” and jokingly asked him to help renegotiate some trade deals for the United States.Mr. Burkle has been a staunch supporter of labor unions and is a fixture in Los Angeles fund-raising circles. He is a trustee of the National Urban League and a nonprofit focused on human rights started by President Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn.Mr. Burkle has flirted with buying news media companies in the past. He explored making bids for The Wall Street Journal and the Knight-Ridder newspaper chain before backing out. His recent acquisitions have included a controlling interest in the Soho House Group, which runs a line of members-only clubs.Mr. Burkle’s attempts to close high-profile deals have fizzled in the past. Mr. Burkle and another investor agreed to a $500 million deal to buy the Weinstein Company last year, only to pull out at the 11th hour. A Dallas-based investment group eventually won rights to the studio.After The Enquirer drew the attention of law enforcement, American Media signed a non-prosecution deal with federal prosecutors. As part of the agreement, the company affirmed that it had made the payment to the Playboy model, Karen McDougal, to “influence the election.” The deal, signed in September, also stipulated that American Media “shall commit no crimes whatsoever” for three years and that, if it did, the company “shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which this office has knowledge.”That agreement has put American Media in a difficult position, now that federal prosecutors have started investigating claims by Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, that he was threatened by the company, according to two people with knowledge of the investigation. Mr. Bezos, who accused American Media of extortion in a blog post, is to meet with federal prosecutors in New York as early as this week, one of the people said.The feud between Mr. Bezos and American Media goes back to January, when The Enquirer ran an 11-page story headlined “Bezos’ Divorce! The Cheating Photos That Ended His Marriage.” The article included furtively snapped photographs of Mr. Bezos in the company of his girlfriend, Lauren Sanchez, and transcriptions of the multibillionaire’s amorous texts.Despite his interest in media properties, Mr. Burkle has granted interviews infrequently.“It doesn’t do me any good for people to know about me or know what I’m doing,” he said in a rare interview with Talk magazine over a decade ago. “If you’re low key, I think you can get a lot more done.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Shasta DarlingtonSÃO PAULO, Brazil — Amazon is the world’s biggest online retailer. It is also the world’s largest rain forest.The question is who owns the name.This is the core of an epic battle between the tech behemoth Amazon.com and eight South American countries that contain parts of the rain forest.At stake is the domain name .amazon, and who should control it on the internet.Amazon.com could use the name to advance its branding and marketing. But the nations objecting to the company’s request are concerned about a corporation symbolically taking control of a name synonymous with their heritage, as well as more mundane matters like whether their own tourism industries would lose the opportunity to use trip.amazon, hotels.amazon and other domain names.“It’s technical, but it’s also very emotional,” said Achilles Emilio Zaluar Neto, the director of technology issues at Brazil’s Foreign Ministry, noting that Jeff Bezos, Amazon.com’s founder, named his company after the Amazon River.“We’ve heard strong speeches from politicians in the Amazon,” he said. “They feel that in symbolic terms their heritage is being taken away by a company.”The clash traces to 2012, when Amazon.com applied to the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), the independent body that oversees global Web addresses, to use the domain name, .amazon.Brazil and Peru, two of the countries that are part of the Amazon Basin region, protested to Icann, which makes the final decision on such matters. Eventually Colombia, Ecuador, Bolivia, Venezuela, Guyana and Suriname also joined forces to block the company’s bid.“It’s not the classic issue of two different parties applying for the same name,” said Rodrigo de la Parra, the regional vice president for Latin America and the Caribbean at Icann. “The governments didn’t apply for .amazon — they only have concerns about its usage by a private company given its cultural and natural heritage for the region.”In some ways, the debate is similar to those over trademark issues, but it is taking place in the limitless and relatively new space of the internet, where the rules are still being devised.It began at a time when the number of internet names was expanding rapidly. Many new country codes like .ca, for Canada, were registered years ago. Then, in 2012, as many as 2,000 requests for top-level domains were made for brand names like .avianca, as well as for names like .lawyer and .gay, and for geographic names like .nyc.Amazon.com was a very active participant in the 2012 internet land grab aimed at seizing territory and control. The company not only put in a bid for .amazon, but it also applied for .shop, .game, .mobile, .free and a host of other domain names.“We spent eight years defining the rules and evicting cybersquatters,” Mr. de la Parra said. One of the rules they established was that applications involving geographic names required the approval of the local or regional governments. National domain names had already been assigned.Names like .nyc and .rio were approved. But in the case of .patagonia, for example, the sportswear maker Patagonia, Inc., withdrew its request for the domain after Argentina and Chile objected.But Amazon.com has persisted.The company declined to comment for this article. But in a 2017 letter to Icann, Brian Huseman, Amazon’s vice president of public policy, wrote: “Amazon has repeatedly offered to work with the concerned governments to find an amicable solution, offering to explore how we can best use .AMAZON for our business purposes while respecting the people, culture, history, and ecology of the Amazonia region.”Mr. Huseman wrote that the company had proposed creating domains that reflect the name of the region in the languages that are spoken there, like .amazonia or .amazonas.The countries challenging the retailer, however, said they wanted shared governance of the .amazon domain, to protect the name and to ensure they will have a say in how it is used in the future.“We would like to be able to raise objections to specific names,” said Mr. Zaluar.In its latest counterproposal, Brazil put forward the idea of a committee with representatives from all eight governments and Amazon.com that would approve extensions of the domain.Mr. Zaluar said Brazil would not oppose names like book.amazon or furniture.amazon. “But what if tomorrow, they decide to use hotel.amazon or trip.amazon?’’ he added. “Our tourism operators would be at a disadvantage.”The dispute has dragged on for seven years, with a number of proposals and counterproposals. Last year, Amazon.com offered $5 million worth of Kindle e-readers and various hosting services as part of a proposed compromise.“We are not looking for financial compensation,” Francisco Carrión Mena, Ecuador’s ambassador to the United States, wrote in a letter to Icann, the internet body that governs web addresses, explaining that the group of eight countries had rejected Amazon’s most recent proposal because it did not provide shared governance of the domain name.In an additional complication, the eight countries are no longer participating as a single entity.Just as negotiations over control of .amazon appeared to be entering the final stretch, a political crisis erupted in January in Venezuela, with Juan Guaidó declaring himself the country’s rightful leader in defiance of President Nicolás Maduro. About 50 countries now recognize Mr. Guaidó, while others continue to recognize Mr. Maduro.“There’s no difference in views — they both want to defend the name of the Amazon, but it’s made it impossible to coordinate a joint counterproposal,” Mr. Zaluar said. As a result, each country has been responsible for submitting its own initiative.Amazon and the eight countries missed an April 7 deadline to reach a compromise solution. Now, Amazon has until Sunday to produce a new proposal that takes into consideration the countries’ concerns.The final decision rests with the internet body that oversees domain names.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBitsBy David StreitfeldEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi, I’m David Streitfeld, reporting from a very quiet week in Silicon Valley. The venture capitalists were at their vacation homes or exotic resorts, dreaming of riches to come. Entrepreneurs also must have taken time off, because I made it to San Jose in less than two hours, a personal record. There wasn’t even a new data privacy scandal to occupy the pundits.Amazon, however, never lets up. Chances are, something under your family Christmas tree or at your Hanukkah or Kwanzaa celebration was from the retailer. Perhaps everything was. Amazon’s 210th and final press release of the year summarized the company’s holiday season: best ever. If history is any guide, more than half those sales were made by third parties — shops big and small that are in essence renting a stall in the Amazon bazaar.With millions of marketplace sellers battling for a piece of the lucrative Amazon action, competition is fierce. Exactly how tough I didn’t realize until I read a piece called “Prime and Punishment: Dirty Dealing in the $175 Billion Amazon Marketplace,” by Josh Dzieza on the tech site the Verge. Almost as an aside, the article mentions that some unscrupulous sellers were taking an established competitor’s product, setting it on fire and then posting photos saying it exploded. Amazon would go nuts and pull the product as a safety hazard, leaving a clear field for the shady new arrival.Another common move, the article says, is to get a competitor’s product reclassified as a sex toy, suppressing it from ordinary search results. This happened to a seller of childproof locks and outlet covers, whose sales dwindled to zero because absolutely no one was searching for “sexual childproof door lock.”At Amazon, the customer reigns supreme, which means sellers who are accused of doing something wrong need to confess to something, anything, even if they are the victim of another seller’s sabotage. It’s so difficult to mount a successful appeal that many merchants hire professional advisers to get them out of Amazon jail.(I asked Amazon how often sellers took the arson route. In a statement, the retailer replied, “There are bad actors who attempt to undermine our store, but they do not reflect the flourishing community of honest entrepreneurs that make up the vast majority of our seller community.”)Amazon also turns up in a new story in Wired, which asks: Whatever happened to the Future Book? That is the writer Craig Mod’s term for the immersive, interactive, highly connected thrill ride that would finally kill off the traditional boring physical book by, oh, 2015.It didn’t happen. “My Kindle Oasis — one of the most svelte, elegant and expensive digital book containers you can buy in 2018 — is about as interactive as a potato,” Mr. Mod writes. One possible reason: Amazon had little competition for the Kindle, so innovation in e-readers ground to a halt.Both the Wired and the Verge stories might seem to be about how Amazon is overextended, can’t be all things to all people and needs to do what it already does better rather than keep expanding into new fields. But they’re really about how Amazon wins even when it loses.Mr. Mod’s point is that while Kindles never killed physical books, there has nevertheless been an explosion of activity around the book. For instance, it is much simpler and much cheaper to publish yourself than it was 20 years ago. There has also been an explosion in recorded books that will only grow as smart speakers in the home become ubiquitous.And who owns the leading home speaker company, the leading recorded books company and the biggest — by far — physical and digital bookstore? You guessed it.As for the Amazon Marketplace sellers who are undermined by bad guys, Amazon has an answer: protection, for a price.“When sellers get in trouble for customer complaints or attacks from counterfeiters,” Mr. Dzieza writes, “the solution is often to more fully meld with Amazon — to enroll in its fulfillment program, to purchase Amazon’s labels to make sure product isn’t being diverted or even make their brand exclusive to Amazon, which brings special protections.”A wrinkle about the third-party sellers that the Verge doesn’t tackle is the way Amazon makes them sign what is called a most-favored-nation or M.F.N. clause, which stipulates they cannot sell on another site cheaper than they sell on Amazon. British and German regulators investigated the retailer’s use of these clauses a few years ago, with the result that Amazon dropped the practice in Europe. But they’re still in use in the United States.In May, two law professors detailed the case against the M.F.N. restrictions as harmful to consumers in a Yale Law Journal article, “Antitrust Enforcement Against Platform MFNs.” A few days before Christmas, Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut picked up on the issue and wrote a four-page letter to the Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department saying he was “deeply concerned” that Amazon’s M.F.N. contracts could stifle market competition and artificially inflate prices.For instance, Mr. Blumenthal wrote, a competitor to Amazon might try to gain an edge by charging merchants a smaller commission. If those merchants also sell on Amazon, however, they could not pass along those savings to their customers, because of the M.F.N. clause. That would be bad for consumers while reinforcing Amazon’s dominance. Amazon declined to comment.■ It used to be that only a few cranks criticized Amazon, but that is rapidly shifting. Still, I was surprised at the take-no-prisoners tone of David Heinemeier Hansson, the programmer who writes and tweets as DHH, in an open letter to Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder, on Medium.“I think you’re currently making bad decisions that you’re going to regret. Maybe even decisions that we as a whole society will come to regret,” DHH wrote. He added that Mr. Bezos still had time to shape his legacy “into something more than the man who killed retail, extracted the greatest loot from its HQ cities, and who expanded the most monopoly holdings the fastest.”DHH wrote his piece in November, but Medium surfaced it in its daily digest just last week. What makes his criticism especially noteworthy is that Mr. Bezos is a shareholder in DHH’s software development company, Basecamp. DHH notes that he and his co-founder have not talked to Mr. Bezos for at least seven years but that “if we get another chance, this would be the most pressing topic.”■ One last new Amazon development, which might be the biggest of all: unionization. Workers at Amazon’s biggest warehouse in Spain began a two-day strike on Thursday. Warehouse employees on Staten Island are calling for unionization, following the lead of colleagues in Minnesota. Here is a good wrap-up from the Guardian. Amazon has successfully stymied unionization efforts since the company began, so this shift is momentous.■ In non-Amazon news, it appears that the answer to the eternal question of whether the world can have too many iPhones is: Quite likely.■ Thanks to Apple’s news, the stock market as I write is again plunging. But there’s a silver lining for tech companies: They are big, and getting bigger, and a recession might only help them against the competition.David Streitfeld has covered technology and its effects for 20 years. In 2013, he was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Reporting. You can follow him on Twitter here: @DavidStreitfeld.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The National Enquirer is being sold to the former head of the airport newsstand company Hudson News following a rocky year in which the tabloid was accused of burying stories that could have hurt Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.Tabloid owner American Media said Thursday it plans to sell the supermarket weekly to James Cohen. Financial terms were not immediately disclosed for the deal, which included two other American Media tabloids, the Globe and the National Examiner.American Media said last week that it wanted to get out of the tabloid business to focus on its other operations that include its teen brand and broadcast platforms.Federal prosecutors in Manhattan agreed last year not to prosecute American Media in exchange for the company's cooperation in a campaign finance investigation. That probe eventually led to a three-year prison term for Trump's former personal lawyer Michael Cohen for campaign violations among other charges.American Media admitted it had paid $150,000 to keep former Playboy model Karen McDougal quiet about an alleged affair with Trump to help his campaign. Trump has denied an affair.The sale would end a longtime relationship between the National Enquirer and Trump. Under the aegis of American Media CEO David Pecker, the tabloid has for years buried potentially embarrassing stories about Trump and other favored celebrities by buying the rights to them and never publishing in a practice called ""catch-and-kill.""The Associated Press reported last year that Pecker kept a safe in the Enquirer's office that held documents on buried stories, including those involving Trump.Whether James Cohen has any allegiances to Trump is not clear. While he was a registered Republican as late as 2017, according to Nexis records, he has given to both Republicans and Democrats. That included $17,300 in 2016 to an arm of the Democratic National Committee and $2,500 to the Republican National Committee in 2012.News of the sale comes two months after Amazon chief Jeff Bezos publicly accused the National Enquirer of trying to blackmail him by threatening to publish explicit photos of him.An American Media attorney denied the charge, but it threatened potentially big legal costs by upending American Media's non-prosecution agreement in the hush money case. The AP reported that federal prosecutors were looking into whether the publisher violated terms of the deal, which included a promise not to break any laws in the future.The Bezos accusation comes at a difficult time for American Media. It has financed several recent acquisitions with borrowed money and has been struggling under a heavy debt load. American Media said the Cohen deal would help reduce the amount it needs to pay back, leaving it with $355 million in debt.The Washington Post, which earlier reported the sale, said Cohen will pay $100 million in the deal.Cohen's family had run a magazine and newspaper distributor for decades before his father branched into newsstand stores in 1980s, starting with a single one at LaGuardia Airport. Before he died in 2012, the father had opened more than 600 stores.After the death, James Cohen's niece alleged her uncle had cheated her out of her inheritance. She lost the case.The family sold a majority stake in the chain about a decade ago. The business is now owned by Dufry, an operator of duty-free stores in which James Cohen is a major shareholder.Cohen still owns a magazine and newspaper distributor called Hudson News Distributors. In addition, he runs a real estate developer and a publishing company, which owns Gallerie, an art and design magazine.Cohen has reportedly been involved in American Media deals before. The New York Times reports that, in 2011, Cohen invested in the company's American edition of OK!, a British tabloid.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.When President Trump fired James Comey in 2017, the F.B.I. was spooked enough that it opened an investigation to determine if the president was working on behalf of the Russian government, The New York Times reported on Friday. Late-night hosts have been wondering aloud about the same question for years.Stephen Colbert, for one, said on Monday that he doesn’t know what all the fuss was about this weekend. He introduced a new mock game show evaluating the president, called “Evil or Stupid?”“The New York Times revealed that after Donald Trump fired James Comey in 2017, the F.B.I. opened an inquiry into whether Trump was secretly working on behalf of Russia. I think that’s ridiculous: There’s nothing secret about it.” — STEPHEN COLBERT“This morning, Trump flat-out told reporters, quote, ‘I never worked for Russia.’ You know what that means: He’s doing it for free. It’s possible he’s a traitor and a bad negotiator.” — JAMES CORDEN“President Trump told reporters today that he has never worked for Russia. ’Cause you know what they say: It ain’t work if you love what you do!” — SETH MEYERSJimmy Fallon joked that Trump might not have the professional skills to work for Vladimir Putin anyway.“It came out that back in 2017, the F.B.I. started investigating whether Trump was secretly working for Russia. When asked if Trump ever worked for him, Vladimir Putin said, [impersonating Putin] ‘No, he’s more like unpaid intern.’” — JIMMY FALLONAs the historically long government shutdown stretches on, late-night hosts continue to keep up a drumbeat of criticism. James Corden on Monday criticized Trump, saying his conduct during the shutdown wasn’t out of character“Eight hundred thousand Americans are now working without getting paid. So, as promised, Trump really is running the country like one of his businesses.” — JAMES CORDEN“Over the weekend, I saw that Washington, D.C., was hit with a big storm and got a foot of snow. The storm showed up and was like, ‘Wait, how is everything already shut down? That’s my job.’” — JIMMY FALLON“According to new research, 60 percent of Americans say they plan to get in shape in 2019. And according to newer research, it’s now just 10 percent.” — SETH MEYERS“I don’t know if you guys know this, but it’s only 659 days until the 2020 election. That’s like tomorrow, guys.” — TREVOR NOAHJimmy Kimmel is doing his part to keep federal employees working during the government shutdown.Colbert has a romantic message for MacKenzie Bezos, soon-to-be ex-wife of Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos.On Tuesday’s “Late Show,” Senator Kirsten Gillibrand is expected to announce her first official steps toward a presidential run, according to CBS News. The Times Late-Night Comedy Committee will be here to tell you about it.Conan O’Brien will be back after a monthslong hiatus next week, with a shorter, thoroughly revamped show. Here’s what he said about what’s in store.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowThe 100 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew Yorkers who expected better bought into the myth that tech companies are more than just self-interested businesses. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. The announcement on Thursday that Amazon has canceled its plan to build a headquarters in New York City is no victory. It’s no defeat, either.What it is, to use a Big Apple term, is meh, yet another indication that the dulcet attractions of tech have lost their charm for many and that the business — which has been this country’s most innovative and promising and often its most inspirational — is just that: a business, like any other, out for itself and itself alone, and most definitely not changing the world for the better.That was the cry of tech from its start — especially of the internet types like the Amazon head, Jeff Bezos. Bankers never said they were going to make the world a better place. Nor did makers of toilet paper or potato chips. Maybe soda makers like Coca-Cola said it in their ads, but we were all in on the joke when they told us that sugar water would bring the world together.But Silicon Valley truly believed its own myths — that tech leaders had arrived from the mountaintop to deliver the gleaming devices and magical software that would transform humanity, and that they would never be evil.Most of all, they really believed they were more than whatever they actually were doing, whether slinging better ads by sucking up our data, or taking a vig for getting us a date or a car, or in Amazon’s case, selling us piles and piles of stuff in really cheap and convenient ways.That’s why only a few years ago, it would have been easy for Amazon to saunter into a place like Long Island City, Queens. In fact, the online giant’s effort to decide where its “second headquarters” would be was originally greeted with enthusiasm, with multiple municipalities going to comical lengths to bring in the promised 25,000 high-paying jobs.There is, of course, no such thing as a second headquarters — this was a marketing circus from the start. But everyone bought into the narrative, especially the media, painting it as if it was going to be a much more transformative opportunity than it ever could be. “Saturday Night Live” got at the heart of it with a sketch a year ago, in which the reps from various cities bowed and scraped, offering all manner of delicious foods and financial gimmes to the world’s richest man.It was satire, but really, was it?It cut too close to home for many, who wondered why, in an era when all kinds of public services are being cut and the city’s infrastructure is crumbling, a trillion-dollar corporation was getting so much. When it was revealed exactly how much — $3 billion in tax breaks after largely secret negotiations between civil potentates like Gov. Andrew Cuomo and faceless Amazon execs — the situation was ripe for disruption. (Was it curious that Mr. Bezos was never the ringmaster in these negotiations? Not to me. He often stays behind the scenes in these situations.)Tech people are always bragging about how they “move fast and break things,” as Facebook’s now-unfortunate motto put it, while seeking out new markets. This time, the disruption came from newly emboldened activists, with high-profile figures like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (whose district is adjacent to the Queens area where the complex was planned) weighing in with some choice words about the deal.“Can everyday people come together and effectively organize against creeping overreach of one of the world’s biggest corporations?,” she tweeted this month, part of a relentless series of these kinds of challenges.Amazon, which never seemed to think it needed to do anything but assert that future tax revenues and other theoretical economic benefits would allow the deal to pay for itself, wasn’t prepared for this kind of scrutiny. So it decided to pull out before it got any hotter. With the prospect of drawn-out negotiations — the cost of not bringing everyone onboard at the start — and the glare of attention such a back-and-forth would bring, the always calculating company came to the obvious calculation that it was not worth the trouble. In other words: “Thank u, next.”It was a little funny that Mayor Bill de Blasio, who was a big proponent of the deal until he wasn’t on Thursday, tried to slap back at Amazon for not being able to stand the heat of New York’s kitchen. Twitter having become the means of governing now, he tweeted: “You have to be tough to make it in New York City.”Oh stop. Amazon is plenty tough, but it just decided to fold up its circus tent and move on. It turns out it won’t even take that show anywhere else and instead says it will simply double down on its other second headquarters in the Washington area, which pretty much tells you that this was all a charade from the beginning.Many New Yorkers had cheered on the opposition, assuming that it might persuade Amazon to strike a better deal with the city. They mostly agreed that more tech jobs would be good for New York (good salaries and more money for retailers, restaurants and the real estate industry) more than bad (gentrification, congestion).But no one wanted to end up like San Francisco — which has become a modern hellscape even as internet companies build their airy HQs and become ever richer. There, tax giveaways only exacerbated income inequality and offered no solutions.Amazon certainly could have been more creative in proposing some balms for those ills in New York. For example, could it have entered into a cool public-private partnership to fix the junky subways its employees would have ridden, perhaps in new and innovative ways?You know, making the world a better place? No, I guess not.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Virgin Galactic’s first test passenger received her commercial astronaut wings from the U.S. aviation regulator on Tuesday after flying on the company’s rocket plane to evaluate the customer experience in February.Virgin Galactic’s chief astronaut instructor, Beth Moses, who is a former NASA engineer, became the first woman to fly to space on a commercial vehicle when she joined pilots David Mackay and Mike Masucci on SpaceShipTwo VSS Unity.The wings were presented to the three-person crew at the 35th Space Symposium in Colorado by the Federal Aviation Administration's associate administrator for commercial space, Wayne Monteith. “Commercial human space flight is now a reality,” he said.The February test flight nudged Richard Branson’s space travel company closer to delivering suborbital flights for the more than 600 people who have paid Virgin Galactic about $80 million (£61 million) in deposits. Branson has said he hopes to be the first passenger on a commercial flight in 2019.The 90-minute flight, during which passengers will be able to experience a few minutes of weightlessness and see the Earth’s curvature, costs $250,000 – a price that the company said will increase before it falls.Jeff Bezos’ Blue Origin and Elon Musk’s SpaceX are also in the space tourism race. Blue Origin has launched its New Shepard rocket to space, but its trips have not yet carried humans. SpaceX last year named Japanese billionaire Yusaku Maezawa as its first passenger on a voyage around the moon, tentatively scheduled for 2023. Moses, who as a NASA engineer worked on the assembly of the International Space Station, is designing a three-day training program for Virgin Galactic’s future space tourists.“I gleaned a lot of firsthand information that we can roll into the design and then also into the training,” she said on her return to earth in Mojave, California, in February.The passengers, some of whom have been signed up since 2004, will train in a mock-up cabin at New Mexico’s Spaceport America before their flights.Moses told Reuters she aims for customers to arrive in space “not wondering what noise they just heard or being surprised by the G they just felt.”Virgin Galactic’s Branson will also receive the annual Space Achievement Award at the symposium in recognition of the company’s two crewed test flights, the first from U.S. soil since the final Space Shuttle mission in 2011. (Reporting by Elizabeth Culliford; Editing by Leslie Adler)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Virgin Galactic’s first test passenger received her commercial astronaut wings from the U.S. aviation regulator on Tuesday after flying on the company’s rocket plane to evaluate the customer experience in February.Virgin Galactic’s chief astronaut instructor, Beth Moses, who is a former NASA engineer, became the first woman to fly to space on a commercial vehicle when she joined pilots David Mackay and Mike Masucci on SpaceShipTwo VSS Unity.The wings were presented to the three-person crew at the 35th Space Symposium in Colorado by the Federal Aviation Administration's associate administrator for commercial space, Wayne Monteith. “Commercial human space flight is now a reality,” he said.The February test flight nudged Richard Branson’s space travel company closer to delivering suborbital flights for the more than 600 people who have paid Virgin Galactic about $80 million in deposits. Branson has said he hopes to be the first passenger on a commercial flight in 2019.The 90-minute flight, during which passengers will be able to experience a few minutes of weightlessness and see the Earth’s curvature, costs $250,000 – a price that the company said will increase before it falls.Jeff Bezos’ Blue Origin and Elon Musk’s SpaceX are also in the space tourism race. Blue Origin has launched its New Shepard rocket to space, but its trips have not yet carried humans. SpaceX last year named Japanese billionaire Yusaku Maezawa as its first passenger on a voyage around the moon, tentatively scheduled for 2023. Moses, who as a NASA engineer worked on the assembly of the International Space Station, is designing a three-day training program for Virgin Galactic’s future space tourists.“I gleaned a lot of firsthand information that we can roll into the design and then also into the training,” she said on her return to earth in Mojave, California, in February.The passengers, some of whom have been signed up since 2004, will train in a mock-up cabin at New Mexico’s Spaceport America before their flights.Moses told Reuters she aims for customers to arrive in space “not wondering what noise they just heard or being surprised by the G they just felt.”Virgin Galactic’s Branson will also receive the annual Space Achievement Award at the symposium in recognition of the company’s two crewed test flights, the first from U.S. soil since the final Space Shuttle mission in 2011. (Reporting by Elizabeth Culliford; Editing by Leslie Adler)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAmazon might have been the center of a new tech ecosystem in Queens. Here’s what the city can do next. By Enrico MorettiProfessor Moretti teaches economics at the University of California, Berkeley.Amazon’s decision on Feb. 14 to cancel its plans in New York City was actually the second time that New York missed its chance to host Amazon headquarters. The first time was in 1994, and what happened then informs what might happen next.It was the beginning of the internet era, and a 30-year-old Jeff Bezos was living in Manhattan, working for the hedge fund D.E. Shaw on Wall Street. He had big plans for his new company, an online book retailer, but he wasn’t sure where to locate it. One thing was clear: New York City’s high-tech ecosystem — the engineers and programmers, the venture capitalists, the intellectual property lawyers, the vendors and service providers that specialized in this specific part of the industry — was too small and undeveloped for an internet start-up to thrive.At that time, people who knew how to create commercial websites were still rare, and he found them in Seattle. Some of the best software engineers and programmers were concentrated there, along with venture capitalists who understood early the potential of the internet. The benefits for Seattle were even greater. Amazon now has more than 45,000 employees there.But the impact of Amazon on the regional economy stretches far beyond the direct employment effect. Its presence helped create a new internet cluster in the region, which served as a magnet for innovative companies such as Tableau and Remitly, and other Silicon Valley giants such as Google, Apple, Facebook and Oracle, which have all opened large offices in Seattle.A growing body of economic research suggests that a company’s success depends on the entire ecosystem that surrounds it, not just the quality of its workers. Having good neighbors, even competitors, improves the productivity and creativity of companies and their workers. Innovative firms have an incentive to locate near other innovative firms. It is a tipping-point dynamic: Once a city attracts some innovative workers and companies, its ecosystem changes in ways that make it even more attractive.Economists have a term for this: “agglomeration effects.” In my research, which examines the work of one million inventors over the past 40 years, I have found that engineers and scientists are more creative in cities where they are surrounded by other engineers and scientists in the same field. This is not just because places like Seattle and Silicon Valley attract the best and brightest, but also because engineers relocating from a minor to a major cluster of technology companies become significantly more productive, as measured by the number of patents created in a year. The quality of innovation also improves, as measured by the number of subsequent research citations received.There is something almost magical in the process of generating new ideas. Being around smart people tends to make us smarter, more creative and more productive. While many people think that email, smartphones and the internet have made proximity less important to the creative process, in reality the opposite is true. Location is more important than ever, in part because knowledge spillovers are more important than ever.This has enormous implications for the economic map of America. Expenditures on research and development and patenting activity are more geographically concentrated today than they were 30 years ago. This trend magnifies the differences between winners and losers among American communities.Which brings us back to New York’s loss. Its regional economy, once dependent on finance, is finally beginning to diversify. But New York’s high-tech cluster is still small relative to its West Coast peers. In the past three years, tech jobs in San Francisco and San Jose have grown 13 percent and 12 percent, respectively — twice the rate for New York, which grew by only 6 percent.The long-run cost of Amazon’s retreat will include not just thousands of good jobs but more critically, the forgone agglomeration benefits — the innovative employers that will not locate in New York.This is a big loss. The tech sector has proved to be the most dynamic engine of earnings growth for American cities, significantly better than the financial sector. Over the past five years, average earnings in high tech in the 10 largest innovation clusters have grown by 18 percent, twice as fast as average earnings in financial services. It’s not that the high-tech sector will disappear from New York, of course, but in the coming years and decades its growth will undoubtedly suffer.Since existing economic studies of agglomeration effects in American cities are typically based on many companies, not just Amazon, and many cities, not just New York, it is difficult to offer predictions of the exact magnitude of the effect. But based on a majority of the existing economic literature, it appears safe to say that the impact on the New York labor market will be noticeable.What should New York do next? Because the region already has a large base of potential high-tech employees and an ability to attract more, subsidies are not necessarily the best strategy. It may be more effective in the long run to provide spaces for research and development, such as the Cornell Tech campus on Roosevelt Island, which was designed to attract graduate students with a strong interest in working for tech companies or starting their own. Fostering their creativity — and avoiding the bitter political infighting that scares away potential newcomers to the city — should be a top priority.Enrico Moretti, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, is the author of “The New Geography of Jobs.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this article incorrectly described the D.E. Shaw firm in the 1990s. It was a hedge fund, not an investment bank.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byIt could have answered the concerns of citizens. Instead it bolted. By Bill de BlasioMr. de Blasio is mayor of New York City.The first word I had that Amazon was about to scrap an agreement to bring 25,000 new jobs to New York City came an hour before it broke in the news on Thursday.The call was brief and there was little explanation for the company’s reversal.Just days before, I had counseled a senior Amazon executive about how they could win over some of their critics. Meet with organized labor. Start hiring public housing residents. Invest in infrastructure and other community needs. Show you care about fairness and creating opportunity for the working people of Long Island City.There was a clear path forward. Put simply: If you don’t like a small but vocal group of New Yorkers questioning your company’s intentions or integrity, prove them wrong.Instead, Amazon proved them right. Just two hours after a meeting with residents and community leaders to move the project forward, the company abruptly canceled it all.I am a lifelong progressive who sees the problem of growing income and wealth inequality. The agreement we struck with Amazon back in November was a solid foundation. It would have created: at least 25,000 new jobs, including for unionized construction and service workers; partnerships with public colleges; and $27 billion in new tax revenue to fuel priorities from transit to affordable housing — a ninefold return on the taxes the city and state were prepared to forgo to win the headquarters.The retail giant’s expansion in New York encountered opposition in no small part because of growing frustration with corporate America. For decades, wealth and power have concentrated at the very top. There’s no greater example of this than Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos — the richest man in the world.The lesson here is that corporations can’t ignore rising anger over economic inequality anymore. We see that anger roiling Silicon Valley, in the rocks hurled at buses carrying tech workers from San Francisco and Oakland to office parks in the suburbs. We see it in the protests that erupted at Davos last month over the growing monopoly of corporate power.Amazon’s capricious decision to take its ball and go home, in the face of protest, won’t diminish that anger. The city and state were holding up our end. And more important, a sizable majority of New Yorkers were on board. Support for the new headquarters was strongest in communities of color and among working people who too often haven’t gotten the economic opportunity they deserved. A project that could’ve opened a path to the middle class for thousands of families was scuttled by a few very powerful people sitting in a boardroom in Seattle.In the end, Amazon seemed unwilling to bend or even to talk in earnest with the community about ways to shape their project. They didn’t want to be in a city where they had to engage critics at all. And it’s a pattern. When Seattle’s City Council passed a tax on big employers to fund the battle against homelessness, the company threatened to stop major expansion plans, putting 7,000 jobs at risk. The tax was rescinded.Economic power — the kind that allows you to dangle 50,000 jobs and billions in revenue over every metropolitan area in the country — is being steadily concentrated into fewer and fewer hands.For a generation, working people have gotten more and more productive, have worked longer and longer hours, and haven’t gotten their fair share in return. C.E.O.s are reaping the benefits of that work, while the people actually responsible for it are keeping less and less.This is no accident. The same day Amazon announced its decision to halt its second headquarters here, it was reported that the company would pay no federal income tax on the billions in profits it made last year. That’s galling, especially at a time when millions of working-class and middle-class Americans are finding that they are getting smaller tax returns this year thanks to President Trump’s tax plan, which has hugely benefited the wealthy.As the mayor of the nation’s largest city, a place that’s both a progressive beacon and the very symbol of capitalism, I share the frustration about corporate America. So do many of my fellow mayors across the country. We know the game is rigged. But we still find ourselves fighting one another in the race to secure opportunity for our residents as corporations force us into all-against-all competitions. Amazon’s HQ2 bidding war exemplified that injustice. It’s time to end that economic warfare with a national solution that prevents corporations from pitting cities against one another.Some companies get it. Salesforce founder and chief executive Marc Benioff threw his weight behind a new corporate tax in San Francisco to fund services for the homeless. In January, Microsoft pledged $500 million to combat the affordable housing crisis in Seattle.Amazon’s path in New York would have been far smoother had it recognized our residents’ fears of economic insecurity and displacement — and spoken to them directly.We just witnessed another example of what the concentration of power in the hands of huge corporations leaves in its wake. Let’s change the rules before the next corporation tries to divide and conquer.Bill de Blasio is mayor of New York City.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.) Capitalism helped Ray Dalio build his investment empire. But in a lengthy LinkedIn post, the Bridgewater Associates founder says that it isn’t working anymore.• Mr. Dalio writes that he has seen capitalism “evolve in a way that it is not working well for the majority of Americans because it’s producing self-reinforcing spirals up for the haves and down for the have-nots.”• “Disparity in wealth, especially when accompanied by disparity in values, leads to increasing conflict and, in the government, that manifests itself in the form of populism of the left and populism of the right and often in revolutions of one sort or another.”• “The problem is that capitalists typically don’t know how to divide the pie well and socialists typically don’t know how to grow it well.”• “We are now seeing conflicts between populists of the left and populists of the right increasing around the world in much the same way as they did in the 1930s when the income and wealth gaps were comparably large.”• “It doesn’t take a genius to know that when a system is producing outcomes that are so inconsistent with its goals, it needs to be reformed.”Stay tuned: Mr. Dalio says that he’ll offer his solutions in another essay.A federal judge gave Elon Musk and the S.E.C. two weeks to resolve a dispute about whether Mr. Musk violated a settlement he reached with the commission, Matthew Goldstein of the NYT reports.Mr. Musk’s tweeting is at the heart of the skirmish. The S.E.C. says that a tweet about Tesla production numbers violated the settlement, in which he promised to get approval from a Tesla lawyer before publishing any Twitter posts that include potentially market-sensitive information.His lawyers insist that the tweet didn’t contain material information. One of them said yesterday that the S.E.C.’s policy on what needs to be vetted was “murky.” Judge Alison Nathan of Federal District Court in Manhattan wondered if there was a “lack of clarity” and whether the settlement should be modified or struck down.“Take a deep breath,” Judge Nathan told both sides. She added that they should put on “their reasonableness pants” to find common ground.This is “something of a victory for Mr. Musk, who could have been fined if he was found to be in contempt,” Mr. Goldstein writes. But Judge Nathan told Mr. Musk that, regardless of how powerful a person he is, a “court order is not optional.”More: Tesla shares fell after it reported delivering fewer vehicles than expected in the first quarter. And the automaker’s electric vehicle competition appears to be catching up.Jeff and MacKenzie Bezos said yesterday that they had finalized their divorce — and she will keep a big chunk of the Amazon empire.Mr. Bezos will keep 75 percent of the couple’s Amazon stock — which means he will hold about 12 percent of the company’s shares — as well as their family’s ownership interests in the WaPo and the Blue Origin space exploration company. That’s enough to keep his title as the world’s richest man.More important for him, he’ll keep voting control of Ms. Bezos’s shares. Even if she sells them, the recipient has to agree to hand over voting rights to Mr. Bezos.Ms. Bezos could have been entitled to half of the couple’s holdings under Washington State law, according to legal experts. It’s not clear what other compensation she is receiving from the split.But her holdings are valued at about $36 billion, making her one of the wealthiest women in the world. In her first-ever tweet, Ms. Bezos wrote, “Excited about my own plans. Grateful for the past as I look forward to what comes next.”Initial findings from an investigation into the Ethiopian Airlines crash last month suggest that Boeing didn’t give pilots enough guidance on new anti-stall software in the 737 Max 8.The Ethiopian Airlines pilots followed Boeing’s instructions when the anti-stall system kicked in, the report suggests. They then shut down the software and tried to retake control — but failed to do so. Four minutes later, the plane crashed.The system appeared to have forced the plane’s nose down several times in less than three minutes. It “left the pilot with no ability to gain control of the aircraft if it went to the full limit,” Dennis Tajer, a spokesman for American Airlines’s pilots union, told the NYT. “It’s our responsibility to eliminate this risk,” Dennis Muilenburg, Boeing’s C.E.O., said yesterday. “We own it, and we know how to do it.” Boeing has found a second software flaw in the 737 Max 8, separate from the anti-stall feature. The FT reports that this was the reason for a delay in rolling out software fixes for the plane.President Trump reportedly hoped to announce a final trade agreement between the U.S. and China yesterday. But he stopped short of that, Anna Swanson of the NYT reports, instead saying that it may take at least four more weeks to secure an “epic” trade deal.• “The United States and China continue to haggle over some remaining issues, including how many of the American tariffs on Chinese goods will be removed, and when.”• “In remarks at the White House, Mr. Trump said that the deal was ‘very complete’ and that the two sides had ‘agreed to far more than we have left to agree to.’ ”• “I think I can say some of the toughest things have been agreed to,” Mr. Trump added.Yet no matter what, Mr. Trump can already claim a trade victory. “Spurred by tariffs and trade tensions, global companies are beginning to shift their supply chains away from China, just as some Trump administration officials had wanted,” Keith Bradsher of the NYT writes.Herman Cain, the former C.E.O. of the Godfather’s Pizza chain and a presidential hopeful in 2012, may soon become President Trump’s next pick as a Fed governor.Mr. Cain is perhaps best remembered for his 2012 run for president, when he proposed an unorthodox “9-9-9” economic plan: a flat 9 percent tax rate, 9 percent business tax and 9 percent national sales tax.But Mr. Trump wants him on the Fed, calling him “a truly outstanding individual.” His nomination is dependent on the White House vetting process.Mr. Trump’s pick comes as the president has soured on the Fed. The president has told associates that selecting Jay Powell as the Fed’s chairman was a mistake, because of his insistence on raising interest rates.But the president’s Fed choices are drawing brickbats. Like Stephen Moore, the economics commentator whom Mr. Trump has already nominated for a place on the Fed board, Mr. Cain doesn’t have what critics say are the requisite qualifications.Critics worry that Mr. Trump is politicizing the Fed, which is meant to be apolitical. The possible nominations of Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain have “the potential to undermine the credibility of monetary policy,” Sarah Bloom Raskin, a Fed governor under President Barack Obama, told the NYT.JPMorgan Chase released its annual report to investors yesterday, and it included a long letter from Jamie Dimon about the bank’s role in shaping America.The biggest problems facing the U.S., according to Mr. Dimon, include education, immigration, health care costs, cyberattacks and “excessive regulation.”Capitalism is under pressure, but it’s better than socialism, he argues. “Socialism inevitably produces stagnation, corruption and often worse,” Mr. Dimon writes. But the JPMorgan chief also distinguishes social democrats, which some Democrats identify as, from true socialists.C.E.O.s and companies should be more active in public life, Mr. Dimon writes, “particularly when they or their companies can uniquely help design policies that are good for America.”To respond, JPMorgan plans to strengthen its public policy teams “to take our advocacy and ideas to the next level,” he writes.More: Jamie Dimon reportedly spent much of last year considering a run for president — but decided there was no way a Wall Street C.E.O. could win.Rudy Giuliani, who was President Trump’s personal lawyer during the special counsel’s investigation into Russian interference in the U.S. election, is a very busy man, according to Stephanie Baker of Bloomberg Businessweek.• Mr. Giuliani runs “a globe-trotting consulting business,” Ms. Baker writes. “In the past two years he’s given speeches and done consulting and legal work in Armenia, Bahrain, Brazil, Colombia, Turkey, and Uruguay, among other countries,” as well as significant work in Ukraine.• But “the question of conflict arises, in part, because Giuliani keeps popping up in world capitals to make pronouncements that dovetail with Trump’s foreign policy positions.”• Mr. Giuliani says he tells clients that he doesn’t lobby the U.S. government. “ ‘There’s no conflict. What’s the conflict?’ he said. ‘I don’t ask the president for anything for them ever.’ He later added, ‘I don’t peddle influence. I don’t have to. I make a good deal of money as a lawyer and as a security consultant.’ ”• “Whatever he does next, whether it’s continuing as Trump’s personal lawyer or going back to full-time consulting, Giuliani is confident the business will continue to flow. ‘I got clients before I represented President Trump, and I’m gonna get clients afterwards,’ he said. ‘After I stop representing him, I’ll be doing more work overseas, because I’ll have more time.’ ”The World Bank’s board is reportedly expected to approve David Malpass as its president today.Lars Idermark resigned as Swedbank’s chairman amid an investigation into alleged money laundering at the Swedish lender.President Trump plans to nominate Jovita Carranza, the U.S. treasurer, as his pick to lead the Small Business Administration, potentially replacing Linda McMahon.The Senate confirmed Mark Calabria, Vice President Mike Pence’s chief economist, as Mr. Trump’s pick to oversee Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.Deals• The company created to hold Yahoo’s $50 billion stake in the Alibaba Group plans to finally dissolve itself and distribute its holdings. (WSJ)• The European Central Bank reportedly will ask Deutsche Bank to raise fresh capital if it merges with Commerzbank. (Reuters)• Shares in Tradeweb, the bond-trading platform, jumped 27 percent on the company’s first day on the public markets. (Bloomberg)• Canyon Capital began a proxy fight at the student loan provider Navient yesterday and plans to seek four board seats. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• President Trump backed off his plan to close the border with Mexico, and instead threatened auto tariffs. (WSJ)• Mr. Trump signaled that he may block an effort to obtain six years’ worth of his tax returns. But even if lawmakers got the documents, they may not get the financial details they’re seeking. (WaPo, Bloomberg)• Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she’d rather build on the Affordable Care Act than adopt Medicare-for-all. (WaPo)• The Justice Department defended Attorney General William Barr’s handling of the Mueller report. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May has asked the E.U. to extend the Brexit deadline to June 30. The European Council’s president, Donald Tusk, had reportedly been preparing to offer a 12-month flexible delay. (BBC)• Ms. May’s attempts to reach cross-party agreement on her Brexit deal have made little progress. She is expected to offer a written proposal to Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, which will reportedly let lawmakers vote on whether to hold a referendum on any Brexit deal. (FT, Guardian)Tech• Britain is reportedly considering holding social media executives personally liable for harmful content on their platforms. (Guardian)• Google has scrapped its A.I. ethics board a little over a week after it was announced, after its choice of panel members drew criticism. (FT)• Microsoft is investigating sexual harassment claims that employees say were overlooked by its H.R. department. (Quartz)• Amazon is denting Google’s ad dominance. And Snap is about to try to take some of the same pie, too. (WSJ, Recode)Best of the rest• Leaders of Berkshire Hathaway’s many businesses are collaborating far more often now, suggesting a new way of doing business once Warren Buffett is no longer C.E.O. (WSJ)• A Tokyo court approved a 10-day detention of Carlos Ghosn, which his lawyer plans to appeal. Meanwhile, his wife spoke out about his latest arrest. (Reuters, NYT)• WikiLeaks says that Ecuador will evict Julian Assange from its London embassy within days. Ecuador denies the claim. (Bloomberg, Business Insider)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - The most powerful operational rocket in the world, SpaceX’s Falcon Heavy, launched its first commercial mission on Thursday from Florida in a key demonstration for billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk's space company in the race to grasp lucrative military launch contracts.The 23-story-tall Heavy, which previously launched Musk’s cherry red Tesla roadster to space in a 2018 debut test flight, blasted off from Florida’s Kennedy Space Center carrying its first customer payload.""T plus 33 seconds into flight, under the power of 5.1 million pounds of thrust, Falcon Heavy is headed to space,"" SpaceX launch commentator John Insprucker said on a livestream. Roughly three minutes after clearing the pad, Heavy’s two side boosters separated from the core rocket for a synchronized landing at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, sparking boisterous cheers from SpaceX engineers in the company's Hawthorne, California headquarters.  The middle booster, after pushing the payload into space, returned nearly 10 minutes later for a successful landing on SpaceX's seafaring drone ship 400 miles (645 km) off the Florida coast. In the 2018 test mission, Heavy's core booster missed the vessel and crashed into the Atlantic Ocean. “The Falcons have landed” Musk wrote on Twitter, inaugurating the first successful recovery of all three rocket boosters, which will be refurbished and re-fly in another Falcon Heavy mission this summer to carry a swarm of military and science satellites for the Air Force.Liftoff with Heavy’s new military-certified Falcon 9 engines was crucial in the race with Boeing-Lockheed venture United Launch Alliance and Jeff Bezos’ Blue Origin as Musk’s SpaceX, working to flight-prove its rocket fleet one mission at a time, aims to clinch a third of all U.S. National Security Space missions - coveted military contracts worth billions.The U.S. Air Force tapped SpaceX in 2018 to launch for $130 million a classified military satellite and in February added three more missions in a $297 million contract. SpaceX and Boeing Co are vying to send humans to space from U.S. soil for the first time in nearly a decade under NASA’s Commercial Crew Program. SpaceX’s Crew Dragon capsule, atop a Falcon 9 rocket, cleared its first unmanned test flight in March ahead of its crewed mission planned for July, while the first unmanned test for Boeing’s Starliner capsule is slated for August on ULA’s Atlas 5 rocket. Falcon Heavy carried a communications satellite for Saudi-based telecom firm Arabsat, which will beam internet and television services over Africa, Europe and the Middle East.Privately owned SpaceX, also known as Space Exploration Technologies Corp, was founded in 2002 by Musk, who is also a co-founder of electric car maker Tesla Inc. (Reporting by Joey Roulette; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Calloway-Blatch and Lance BoothHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. Virginia’s lieutenant governor, Justin E. Fairfax, above, has refused to resign in the face of sexual assault allegations, giving Democrats an excruciating choice: whether to impeach a black leader at a moment when the state’s two other top leaders, both white, are also resisting calls to quit after admitting to racist behavior.A second woman said on Friday that Mr. Fairfax had sexually assaulted her, echoing an accusation made earlier in the week. Both accusations came within a few days of Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark R. Herring acknowledging that they wore blackface as young men. How Virginia Democrats handle these three state officials — who swept into office in 2017 on the first wave of backlash after President Trump’s election — will reverberate beyond the state’s borders.We examine how Virginia’s history of race and politics is now under intense scrutiny and give a day-by-day breakdown of the scandals.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. President Trump delivered a message of unity on Tuesday night during his second State of the Union address — but continued to push the hard-line immigration policies that have divided the capital and the nation. We checked the facts on some of Mr. Trump’s remarks.From Nancy Pelosi of California presiding as House speaker to the island of white created by the women on one side of the chamber, the Democrats’ resurgence was on full display at the State of the Union, our chief Washington correspondent writes.And with the looming Feb. 15 deadline to prevent another government shutdown, Mr. Trump is moving toward accepting a border security deal that would fall short of his demand for $5.7 billion in funds for a wall along the southwestern border.____3. Pope Francis acknowledged that priests and bishops in the Roman Catholic Church have sexually abused nuns, the first time he has publicly addressed the issue. Above, a nun outside Vatican City in August.A recent article in a Vatican magazine mentioned nuns having abortions or giving birth to the children of priests. “It’s true,” the pope replied when he was asked to comment on Tuesday. “There are priests and bishops who have done that.”Advocates for abused nuns were relieved that Francis had finally put the issue on the church’s radar. But they also noted that this problem has existed for years, and that the pope did not seem to suggest there would be a speedy solution.In India, the church has acknowledged a nun’s accusation that a bishop raped her 13 times, but only after five of her fellow nuns mutinied and publicly rallied to her side.____4. In a surprise vote, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., above, joined the Supreme Court’s liberal wing in a 5-to-4 decision blocking a Louisiana law that could have severely restricted abortion in the state.Chief Justice Roberts’s vote shows that while his general approach is to lean right, he is also a guardian of his court’s legitimacy and wants to make modest and deliberate moves, our Supreme Court reporter writes.The Louisiana case is not over, and the court is likely to hear a challenge to the law on its merits during the next term. Anti-abortion activists nationwide still believe they have their best chance in years to aggressively curb abortion access.____5. Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting attorney general, above, told the House Judiciary Committee on Friday that he had never used his position to provide inside information about the Russia investigation to President Trump or his proxies.During a somewhat contentious oversight hearing, he also said he had “not interfered in any way with the special counsel’s investigation.” But he refused to discuss his conversations with Mr. Trump or why he recently said the special counsel’s inquiry would soon wrap up.William P. Barr is expected to be confirmed by the Senate and sworn in as Mr. Whitaker’s replacement as soon as this week. And Mr. Trump announced Monday that he would nominate David Bernhardt to succeed Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke.____6. Liberal Democrats, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, above, introduced their “Green New Deal” on Thursday with a sweeping resolution that would combat climate change, create jobs and counter President Trump’s challenge to core party values.The resolution calls on the United States to eliminate additional emissions of carbon by 2030. While it is unlikely to get far, some ideas could advance as part of more modest legislation.NASA scientists said Wednesday that the Earth’s average surface temperature in 2018 was the fourth highest in nearly 140 years of record-keeping. “We’re no longer talking about a situation where global warming is something in the future,” said the director of the group that conducted the analysis. “It’s here. It’s now.”____7. Jeff Bezos, above, accused the company behind The National Enquirer of “extortion and blackmail,” writing that the company threatened to publish graphic photos of him if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his extramarital affair was not politically motivated.“If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion, how many people can?” wrote Mr. Bezos, the founder of Amazon and the owner of The Washington Post. You can read excerpts from his blog post here.Federal prosecutors are now reviewing Mr. Bezos’ claim, according to two people briefed on the matter.____8. A deluge of toxic mud stretched for five miles, crushing homes, offices and people — more than 150 of them were killed when a mining dam collapsed in Brazil in January.The tragedy in the town of Brumadinho was hardly a surprise, experts told us. There are 88 mining dams in Brazil built like the one that failed: enormous reservoirs of mining waste held back by little more than walls of sand and silt.We took an expansive look at the disaster, reconstructing the mud’s deadly journey and illustrating how these dams are built and what led the one in Brumadinho to crumple.____9. The Grammy Awards, airing Sunday night on CBS, are supposed to be music’s biggest party. But as the show tries to stay culturally relevant while also balancing the demands of race and gender representation, it may be impossible to please everybody at once, our music reporter writes.Ariana Grande and Cardi B, who are up for a collective seven Grammys, recently released music videos in which they celebrated outrageous wealth and women’s bodies — and there’s hardly a man in sight. This week’s In Her Words, our gender newsletter, takes a glimpse at the history of female artists flexing their independence.Elsewhere in the entertainment world, “Saturday Night Live” mocked the media’s fascination with Jeff Bezos’ private photos and tore into the Virginia blackface controversy.____10. Finally, don’t miss our Best Weekend Reads.Mothers in Japan, like Yoshiko Nishimasa, above, are shouldering most of the work at home, including daily preschool paperwork, with little help from fathers; thousands of agricultural families descend on Denver for a 16-day celebration of Western heritage; and 63 years ago, a retired actor found a Greenwich Village apartment for $90 a month and never left.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these nine new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have a great week.Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestGovernment shutdown fallout is hitting airports hard — also, your grocery store. And European officials are scrambling for a Brexit backup plan.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi there! Have you too been sucked into the decluttering vortex of Marie Kondo’s new Netflix show? You’re in good company. Who knew sock folding could be such a phenomenon?I’m sure we’ve all got a lot of cleaning — er, “sparking joy” — to do today, so I’ll keep this week’s rundown of business news nice and tidy. Once you’re caught up, you’ll still have plenty of time to arrange all your T-shirts into neat little rectangles. It may not be quite as mesmerizing as watching strangers sort their laundry on television, but only just.JAN. 6-12The government shutdown continues to drag on, but at least tax refunds won’t be held up. The White House will order some Internal Revenue Service employees to return to work so that the tax filing season can begin and refunds can be issued. But this is a rare positive turn as the shutdown’s effects pile up. Crucial government loans have stalled. The Food and Drug Administration has stopped routine safety inspections of vegetables, fish, and other groceries (yikes). The Miami airport is closing a terminal because of a shortage of Transportation Security Administration officers. And despite volunteers' efforts, the public bathrooms at some national parks remain gross.You can stop fretting about loan rates going up, at least for now. The Fed is taking a more cautious approach to raising interest rates, according to documents released from its December meeting. Like the rest of us, officials are wary about downshifts in economic growth and trade tensions with China. (The latter seemed a bit less ominous after trade talks last week, but bigger sticking points have yet to be resolved.) The Fed still plans to increase rates twice this year, but probably not at its January or March meetings. As the Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, put it on Thursday, “We’re going to be patient and watching, and waiting and seeing.”CBS News made a surprise announcement on Sunday that Susan Zirinsky would succeed David Rhodes as its new (and first female) president. The inspiration for the ambitious, principled character played by Holly Hunter in the movie “Broadcast News,” Ms. Zirinsky has been at CBS for over four decades. She’s got her work cut out for her: The network has recently weathered numerous bombshells about its corporate culture and fired several prominent figures — most notably its morning show anchor Charlie Rose and its chief executive, Leslie Moonves — after they were accused of sexual misconduct.JAN. 13-19Yes, we’ve heard this before: The British Parliament will vote this Tuesday on a proposal for Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union. No one expects the beleaguered Brexit plan to pass, just as it didn’t back in December, and Prime Minister Theresa May is scrambling to pull together a backup strategy. Desperate measures may soon be in order, and Chancellor Sebastian Kurz of Austria became the first European Union leader to suggest an extension of Brexit’s March 29 deadline. But would more time change anybody’s mind?The six largest banks in the United States will report their fourth-quarter results this week. If they report lower than expected numbers, the news could be read as another canary in the coal mine for a potential economic slowdown. Most banks have booked record returns for almost a year, thanks to tax cuts and a humming economy, but volatile markets at the end of 2018 could have put an end to this streak. Citigroup will release its earnings on Monday, followed by JPMorgan and Wells Fargo on Tuesday and Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America on Wednesday.We haven’t heard much recently about Theranos, the seemingly miraculous blood-testing start-up that last year turned out to a giant fraud. But that may change on Monday, when a federal court in California holds a hearing on criminal charges against Theranos’s former chief executive, Elizabeth Holmes, and its former president, Ramesh “Sunny” Balwani (also Ms. Holmes’s erstwhile boyfriend). Indicted on charges of conspiracy and wire fraud last summer, they could each face prison sentences of up to 20 years.Lots of car news these days. The North American International Auto Show, one of the world’s biggest, hits Detroit on Monday; electric cars are expected to be a hot topic. Fiat Chrysler agreed on Wednesday to pay nearly $650 million to settle lawsuits over its use of illegal software on diesel vehicles to produce false results on emissions tests. Tangentially related: The Chrysler building — once New York City’s tallest structure — is for sale.$137 billion: The net worth of Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive and the world’s richest man. But that number may soon change, as Mr. Bezos and his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie Bezos, announced their divorce last Wednesday. Ms. Bezos, a novelist, may be entitled to a sizable stake in Amazon as well as half of all those billions, which would make her — you guessed it — the world’s richest woman.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)President Trump has long enjoyed the backing of one major lender: Deutsche Bank. David Enrich of the NYT has taken a deep look into their often turbulent relationship — which is now under investigation by prosecutors and Congress.Deutsche Bank courted Mr. Trump when no one else would. He had already gone bankrupt, and no Wall Street lender would back him. But bankers at Deutsche like Mike Offit and Justin Kennedy (the son of Justice Anthony Kennedy) lent him millions. Mr. Trump rewarded some bankers, after some prompting, with a trip to his Mar-a-Lago resort.It issued loans despite finding financial discrepancies. Deutsche Bank officials concluded that Mr. Trump was worth about $788 million, not his self-proclaimed $3 billion. And a senior banking executive told Mr. Enrich that he had told others that Mr. Trump had worked with people in the construction industry who were tied to organized crime.Only when Mr. Trump sued Deutsche Bank did its investment banking arm drop him as a client. But its private wealth arm, hungry for business, eventually took him back and lent him millions more.After the 2016 election, Deutsche Bank executives admitted to problems. They concluded that their colleagues had ignored many warning signs about Mr. Trump, including from internal “exposure reports.” Salesmen for the firm were warned not to utter Mr. Trump’s name in public.Now the bank is in investigators’ cross hairs, and plans to hand over extensive internal documentation to Congress and federal prosecutors. Rosemary Vrablic, Mr. Trump’s main private banker — “She is the boss,” he once told the NYT — expects to be called to testify on Capitol Hill.After Elon Musk accused the S.E.C. of trying to trample on his constitutional rights, the regulator hit back yesterday, reiterating its case that the Tesla chief should be held in contempt of court, Bloomberg reports.The S.E.C. says he’s violating a court settlement under which it agreed not to charge him with securities fraud. He was supposed to have lawyers vet any Tesla-related tweets before he posts them; the S.E.C. said he hadn’t done so even once.Mr. Musk had argued that the S.E.C.’s objection was to one tweet, which mentioned previously undisclosed production forecasts. But the regulator said that the settlement was meant to cover a wide variety of his statements.“Such brazen disregard of this court’s order is unacceptable and unworkable going forward,” the S.E.C. said.A lawyer for Mr. Musk plans to respond in court by Friday. According to Bloomberg, the lawyer, John Hueston, said that the response “would include documents reflecting the negotiation history between Musk and the S.E.C., which he said would undermine the S.E.C.’s new assertions.”More officials are seeking answers from Boeing about an automated piloting feature that may have played a role in two fatal crashes involving its 737 Max 8 airplane.• House and Senate committees are preparing to question F.A.A. leaders next month about the Max jets, with a focus on the stall-prevention system, according to the WSJ.• Canada’s aviation regulator is reviewing its validation of the American certification of the 737 Max, Marc Garneau, the nation’s transport minister, told reporters yesterday.• They join officials from the Justice Department and the Transportation Department, who are studying the Max jet’s development process. The Transportation Department inspector general’s office is also investigating if the F.A.A. took shortcuts in the jet’s safety approval.Boeing’s C.E.O., Dennis Muilenburg, spoke out yesterday, making his first substantive public comments about the crash. “Our hearts are heavy, and we continue to extend our deepest sympathies to the loved ones of the passengers and crew on board,” he said. He added that Boeing was “taking actions to fully ensure the safety of the 737 Max.”More: If demand for Max jets falters, Airbus might struggle to build its rival offering, the A320neo, fast enough.The semiconductor industry is looking at an impending deal between the U.S. and China, and it doesn’t like what it sees — whether the talks succeed or fail.Chip-makers fear unintended consequences from one of Washington’s key demands, the WSJ reports, that Beijing promise more than $1 trillion in purchases of American goods and services over six years:• “China has offered to buy $30 billion of U.S. chips over six years, industry officials said, essentially doubling U.S. semiconductor exports to China.”• “For Beijing to guarantee the sales would require it to put together a kind of quota system, industry officials argued, and that mechanism could later be used to dole out contracts to Chinese firms.”But their investors have priced in extra orders from China. Shares in companies like Intel and AMD have jumped in value by as much as 20 percent so far this year as hopes of a trade deal with Beijing have risen. All that could go away if the talks break down.So what to do? Chip-makers have asked the Trump administration “not to include them” in any agreement over boosted trade quotas, according to the WSJ. (They have expressed support for other parts of the trade deal, including protection of intellectual property.)One of the biggest questions surrounding the National Enquirer’s exposé of Jeff Bezos’ affair with Lauren Sanchez was how it got the photos and text messages that it published. The answer, according to the WSJ: They came from Ms. Sanchez’s brother.• “Michael Sanchez, the brother of Mr. Bezos’ lover, sold the billionaire’s secrets for $200,000 to the Enquirer’s publisher, said people familiar with the matter.”• “Mr. Sanchez began conversations last fall with the tabloid about his sister’s relationship with Mr. Bezos, the people said. The Enquirer by then had already been investigating whether Mr. Bezos and Ms. Sanchez were having an affair.”• But David Pecker, the head of the National Enquirer’s parent company, was “concerned Mr. Bezos would sue, forcing debt-laden American Media to expend resources to defend itself for a story executives believed was unlikely to sell well on newsstands.”• He was also advised that publishing the story might make the Enquirer look like it was doing the bidding of President Trump, who has publicly criticized Mr. Bezos.• Ultimately, of course, the story was published. But American Media’s financial backers, Chatham Asset Management, “conveyed their displeasure” about the fallout and “pressured Mr. Pecker to resolve the matter.”Kevin Tsujihara quit as the head of WarnerMedia’s Warner Bros. movie division yesterday, facing claims that he tried to further the career of an actress he had a sexual relationship with, Ed Lee of the NYT reports.Mr. Tsujihara is accused of helping Charlotte Kirk by putting her up for movie and TV parts. Rumors about his activities had swirled in Hollywood for a year, but were made public in a March 6 article in The Hollywood Reporter.He said that he decided to leave after talking with John Stankey, the head of WarnerMedia. But WarnerMedia said that the investigation would continue even after Mr. Tsujihara’s departure.It’s a black eye for WarnerMedia’s owner, AT&T. The telecom company considered the accusation before it promoted Mr. Tsujihara two weeks ago. Now it must fill his role while enduring a kind of scandal that it hasn’t experienced before. (Stacey Snider and Peter Chernin, both Hollywood veterans, may replace Mr. Tsujihara.)When the college admissions scandal news broke last week, it exposed how the SAT and ACT tests could be gamed. Bloomberg Businessweek spoke to Rebecca Kantar, the founder of a start-up called Imbellus, who thinks she knows how to shake things up.• Ms. Kantar says that standardized tests could be abused by the wealthy, through tutoring and fake scores, and give little insight about skills that will be useful in the future.• “The digital assessments Imbellus has developed resemble video games” that test decision-making, Romesh Ratnesar of Bloomberg writes. “Because each simulation delivers a unique user experience, they’re intended to be cheatproof.”• “We’re establishing that simulation-based assessments are a better medium for getting at deep-thinking skills than multiple-choice tests,” Ms. Kantar said.• So far, the company has raised $23.5 million in funding, and developed employee tests for McKinsey and Company and a few others.• “Kantar plans to begin giving the Imbellus test to high schoolers later this year,” Mr. Ratnesar writes. “She also says, without going into many details, that the company is bidding to take part in a federally funded national assessment that will test 100,000 students in 2022.”Fox News has hired Donna Brazile, the former interim Democratic Party chairwoman, as a commentator.UBS hired Bob Casey from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey and Robert Jackman from Outvest Capital as managing directors on its U.S. tech banking team.Goldman Sachs is aiming to have half of its junior banker hires in the U.S. be women.Deals• The European Central Bank’s top regulator said he didn’t approve of national champions, which could complicate a merger of Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank. (FT)• Levi Strauss will begin trading publicly on Thursday, marking a turnaround for the inventor of bluejeans. (NYT)• Wall Street keeps falling in love with risky, repackaged debt — and could get burned again. (NYT Op-Ed)• EasyJet dropped out of Delta Air Lines’ bid for the bankrupt Italian carrier Alitalia. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• White House economic advisers say President Trump can’t sustain his economic boom without an infrastructure spending bill and more tax cuts. (WaPo)• Mr. Trump demanded that G.M. reopen a big car plant in Ohio. (NYT)• The Justice Department will soon decide whether to charge Gregory Craig, a former Obama administration official, with violating foreign lobbying laws. (NYT)• Alan Krueger, an economist who served in the Clinton and Obama administrations, has died at 58. (NYT)• President Trump’s re-election campaign has reportedly spent $4.5 million on Facebook and Google ads this year — nearly twice as much as the entire Democratic field. (Axios)Brexit• The speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, moved to deny Prime Minister Theresa May a further vote on her proposed Brexit agreement. (NYT)• But the E.U. is reportedly planning to agree to a three- or nine-month delay on Brexit, which may be a change large enough for Mr. Bercow to permit another vote. (Guardian)Trade• As America focuses on its strategic relations with China, a question is emerging: Would Europe be able to cope without the U.S.? (Axios)• China’s Belt and Road initiative could revive the fortunes of a once-famous European port. (NYT)Tech• Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, said her top priority was cybertheats. (NYT)• The U.S. announced plans to build a $500 million supercomputer as it races to keep up with China. (NYT)• Facebook says that the video of the New Zealand mosque shootings was viewed 4,000 times before it was removed. Also: New Zealand and Australia have urged Facebook to police extremism; and how social media’s business model helped the video spread. (CNBC, Bloomberg, WaPo)• President Vladimir Putin of Russia signed a law that bans what the authorities regard as fake news. (Reuters)Best of the rest• How PG&E overlooked wildfire risks in favor of its bottom line. (NYT)• A survey of women in economics revealed widespread bias and nearly 100 accusations of sexual assault. (NYT)• The Fed uses so-called dot plots to show how its 19 officials expect interest rates to change — but investors seem increasingly confused. (WSJ)• Can sophisticated investors be defrauded? The courts keep saying no. (DealBook)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCities should treat rising rents like pollution and tax the companies that cause it.By E. Tammy KimMs. Kim is a journalist.On Wednesday, Microsoft announced a commitment of $500 million “to advance affordable housing solutions” in the greater Seattle area. While it was striking for the company to acknowledge how supremely difficult it is for “lower- and middle-income workers to afford to live close to where they work,” 95 percent of its commitment would be in the form of loans to housing developers, much of it for market-rate housing that will benefit more-affluent residents.What is needed in Seattle — as well as San Francisco; Austin, Tex.; New York City; Boulder, Colo.; and other urban areas where the rapid influx of high-paid tech workers has made housing unaffordable for nearly everyone else — isn’t a corporate takeover of housing policy but, rather, a per-employee “head tax” that would fund real investments in affordable housing, which should be a public good.The notion of a head tax isn’t unprecedented, even in Seattle. In May 2018, faced with a crisis of homelessness and housing insecurity, the Seattle City Council levied a fee of $275 per employee on corporations whose annual revenues exceed $20 million — the most conspicuous of which is Amazon. (Microsoft is based in nearby Redmond, Wash.) The tax would have raised a modest but useful sum to build affordable housing units and fund social services. But just weeks later, after Amazon hinted that it might leave Seattle altogether, the Council voted overwhelmingly to reverse its decision.It was a terrible loss for Seattle’s housing advocates, who were hoping for a systemic response to doubling rents, inhumanely fast evictions (Washington State has a three-day notice period) and a rise in the number of families living in their cars. And they were not reassured when, a few months after killing the head tax, Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, announced that he would pay a minimum wage of $15 per hour to all of its United States workers, a boost to low-wage warehouse and cafeteria workers. But in Seattle, where the minimum wage is now $16 for big employers, low wages cannot buy decent housing. The average rent in Seattle was nearly $2,000 in 2017, and nearly half of all renters spent more than 30 percent of their incomes on housing. For many workers, $15 or even $20 an hour, at 40 or 50 hours a week, means couch-surfing. At a deeper level, by rejecting taxation but agreeing to a wage increase, Amazon seemed to imply that corporations, rather than the government, should dictate the terms of redistribution. The same is true of Microsoft’s $500 million pledge: It subordinates public policy to a we-alone-can-fix-it hubris. Rather than becoming landlords, tech giants should pay their fair share. More and more cities are pushing them to do so. In November, voters in San Francisco approved Proposition C, a tax on large businesses that will fund homeless services. Down the peninsula, residents of East Palo Alto, where Amazon recently leased 214,000 square feet of office space for 1,300 new employees, approved a parcel tax on large plots of commercial real estate. In Google’s hometown, Mountain View, 70 percent of voters said yes to a per-employee tax to fund transportation and affordable housing. These California cities are providing the rest of the United States with a template to address the housing crisis: local, targeted taxes on large companies that employ a significant proportion of high earners. Such taxes could be based on square footage, the number of employees or even workers’ salary range, and would apply to any industry — not just tech — that puts pressure on the local housing market by suddenly hiring thousands of highly paid employees. Such measures do not make “businesses, pay a price for creating jobs,” as corporations opposing the Seattle head tax claimed. They are a tax on negative externalities — something akin to a pollution tax. A half-century ago, it seemed inconceivable that factories, smelters or power plants should have to account for the toxins they released into the air. But we have since accepted the idea that businesses should pay the public for the negative externalities they cause. Today, corporations must answer for increased rents and evictions, and for worsening traffic jams. Like air and water pollution, these costs are shared by all of us.Modestly taxing gentrification is unlikely to drive tech companies into suburbia; their employees increasingly prefer the amenities of city life. It’s true that a head tax could make one place less desirable than another — Amazon played off that fear with its implied threat to leave Seattle — but the answer is not for cities to give up billions of dollars in tax incentives. A better approach is for all metropolitan areas that are being transformed by the extremes of corporate wealth to enact redistributive policies focused on housing justice. There are many possible solutions: Across the country, local advocates are pushing for increased housing subsidies, rent-stabilization laws, renter protections to prevent arbitrary eviction, permanently affordable public and private housing, community land trusts, and free legal representation and emergency funds to prevent tenants from being evicted. Some combination of these measures, deployed on a large scale — and funded through corporate taxes — is needed to address what is so clearly a crisis.Call it a head tax or a luxury tax. But recognize what is behind it: the rapid rise of companies employing tens of thousands of high-earning workers has caused, and will continue to cause, displacement. This has happened in the Seattle area and Silicon Valley, and it will soon happen in Long Island City and Northern Virginia, where Amazon will add two new headquarters. Unaffordable rents are not a personal failing or an inevitable outcome of the market; they are a corporate externality as toxic as smog or acid rain.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.E. Tammy Kim is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times, and a co-author and co-editor of Punk Ethnography, a book about the politics of contemporary world music. Her work has appeared in The New York Times Magazine, The New York Review of Books, The Nation, The New Yorker and many other outlets.  Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Woody Allen breached his four-movie deal with the online giant by making statements about the #MeToo movement that damaged prospects for promoting his films, an Amazon lawyer said Friday.Attorney Robert Klieger told U.S. District Judge Denise Cote that the company protected itself after Allen made ""public comments that at a minimum were insensitive to the #MeToo movement.""The hearing was related to a lawsuit Allen filed in February seeking at least $68 million in damages. The lawsuit said Amazon ended his 2017 contract in June without ever releasing a completed film, ""A Rainy Day in New York.""Allen was not in court. John Quinn, his lawyer, told the judge that Seattle-based Amazon initially claimed it was ending the deal because of allegations made against Allen, not because of his recent statements.""The baseless allegations against Mr. Allen are decades old,"" Quinn said. He added that the claims were well known when Amazon signed its deal with Allen in August 2017.Allen's adopted daughter, Dylan Farrow, said in 1992 that Allen molested her in an attic when she was 7. Allen has repeatedly denied it.In 2014, Farrow wrote about the allegations and then appeared in an interview early last year for the first time.Quinn said Amazon has since changed its explanation for terminating the contract to blaming Allen for making statements saying that the #MeToo movement should not become a witch hunt.The lawyer said the company had also cited claims that people in the industry won't work with Allen.Regardless, Quinn said, Allen planned to produce a new movie this summer.In court papers, Amazon noted that Allen's son, Ronan Farrow, published an article in The New Yorker just weeks after the company signed its contract with Allen. The article detailed reports of sexual misconduct against movie producer Harvey Weinstein. Weinstein has denied non-consensual sexual conduct occurred.""The article became the catalyst for a broad reckoning over the persistence of sexual harassment in entertainment and other industries,"" Amazon's lawyers wrote.They said Allen then made a series of public comments ""suggesting that he failed to grasp the gravity of the issues or the implications for his own career.""They cited several quotes by Allen in a magazine article including: ""You don't want it to lead to a witch-hunt atmosphere, a Salem atmosphere, where every guy in an office who winks at a woman is suddenly having to call a lawyer to defend himself.""They also noted that after Dylan Farrow recounted her memories of sexual abuse in January 2018, Allen publicly dismissed the statements in a newspaper article as ""cynically using"" #MeToo for attention.Klieger told the judge Allen's public comments resulted in controversy ""in Hollywood and outside of Hollywood.""The effect of the comments mean the pictures can no longer be made or promoted, Klieger said.After hearing both lawyers, the judge set a case schedule stretching into next year.Allen and possibly Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, among others, were likely to provide depositions unless the case is resolved through private mediation in coming weeks.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byINTERNATIONALAn article on Friday about Britain’s chief medical officers calling for restrictions on children’s use of screens and social media misidentified the organization that set guidelines for children’s use of media in the United States. It is the American Academy of Pediatrics, not the American Association of Pediatrics.•An article on Jan. 31 about Russian influence in Venezuela referred incompletely to the countries in Latin America that support President Nicolás Maduro. In addition to Nicaragua and Cuba, Bolivia and Suriname also support him.NEW YORKAn article on Monday about a prosecutor’s decision to drop an abortion charge in a Queens murder case misspelled the surname of Anthony Hobson’s defense lawyer. He is Steven Questore, not Questlore.BUSINESSAn article on Saturday about a new business venture by Les Moonves, the former chief executive of CBS, referred imprecisely to the payment of legal fees incurred by Mr. Moonves. Although CBS paid some of Mr. Moonves’s legal fees, it is not paying them amid an arbitration fight over his severance.•Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about federal prosecutors’ investigation of Jeff Bezos’ extortion claims against American Media Inc. misspelled the name of the crown prince of Saudi Arabia. He is Mohammed bin Salman, not Salmans.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Tuesday about the illustrator and author Tomi Ungerer misstated when Maurice Sendak began working with the book editor Ursula Nordstrom. She had already published work by Mr. Sendak before she published Mr. Ungerer’s first children’s book, “The Mellops Go Flying”; she did not work with Mr. Ungerer first.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Monday. Alternate-side parking: Suspended on Monday and Tuesday for snow removal.Weather: The snow has moved out of New York City and the surrounding area. Still, temperatures across the region are forecast to remain close to freezing this morning, which may mean hazardous conditions on area roads throughout the day and into the evening.Watch out for ice, especially slippery streets and walkways.As of 10 a.m., at least 10,000 homes and businesses were without power across New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, according to local utility companies.Morning commute: With the snowfall stopping well before rush hour, the subways ran without significant weather-related delays through the morning commute. The Long Island Rail Road and Metro North also reported good service.New Jersey Transit did not report any major cancellations or delays to service but advised commuters to check its website throughout the day for information. It also said it was allowing customers to use their tickets or passes on rail, light rail, buses and private carriers.All New York City public schools are closed today, and many other school systems around the region are closed or opened late.The City University of New York also announced it would be closed.[Was Mayor de Blasio too quick to close city schools?]The snow: Up to 10 inches of snow had been expected to fall overnight, and officials had warned that the most intense precipitation could come just before the commute.Around 4 a.m., the wintry mix began tapering off.In Central Park, 5 inches of snow had fallen by 6:48 a.m., according to the National Weather Service. Parts of New York and New Jersey had more than a half-foot of snow, the weather service said, and snowfall totals were close to a foot in parts of Connecticut.Get the latest snowfall totals here.By midmorning, the lingering clouds will clear. Expect a high near 38 and a windchill that could make it feel in the 20s.If you’re cranky about your Monday morning, it could be worse.There’s a major cold snap across much of the central and eastern regions of the country. Temperatures in the Midwest were expected be 20 to 30 degrees below normal. Subzero wind chills were forecast in the Northern Plains.The bottom line: Wear your boots, and layer up. And expect longer commutes this morning.Last year, Amazon announced plans to open a major campus in New York City.On Valentine’s Day, it called the whole thing off.Then, Governor Cuomo began a campaign to woo it back.Here’s what you need to know:• The Times broke the news that Mr. Cuomo had spoken to multiple Amazon executives by phone over the last two weeks, including the company’s owner, Jeff Bezos. That they even took his calls after the deal’s collapse is a ray of hope for supporters.• The Times also reported that a prominent critic of the plan, State Senator Michael Gianaris, is no longer set to join an obscure state panel that could have given him veto power over the deal. Leroy Comrie, a Queens state senator, recently replaced Mr. Gianaris as the nominee to the panel, known as the Public Authorities Control Board.• The day after that news broke, a full-page ad appeared in The Times, signed by more than 70 prominent supporters, urging Mr. Bezos to reconsider. The ad said Mr. Cuomo would “take personal responsibility for the project’s state approval.”• On the day the ad appeared, Mr. Cuomo said in a radio interview that Mr. Gianaris and another prominent critic of the deal, Councilman Jimmy Van Bramer, were “irrelevant because there are other ways the state can get it done.”• As one Albany reporter humorously noted, Mr. Cuomo’s latest push seemed to resemble an article from the satirical news outlet The Onion, which pictured the governor furiously chasing down a limousine carrying Mr. Bezos.The takeaway: This is not all about Amazon. The company hasn’t commented, and Mr. Cuomo said he had no reason to believe the deal was back on. But Mr. Cuomo is signaling to other businesses: New York is still primed for deals that create jobs.• Top shelf: How the New York Public Library chooses its books.• Schooled: Animals are helping teach children with special needs on campuses just outside New York City.• Big City: Mayor de Blasio may be a liability for Democrats in 2020,  columnist Ginia Bellafante says.• Trump’s money man: A profile of Allen Weisselberg, Mr. Trump’s chief financial officer, whom Michael Cohen mentioned more than 20 times during congressional testimony last week.• At the ballet: A critic says there has been progress, but not equality at the New York City Ballet, which just appointed new leadership.• Modern Love: The actor Andrew Rannells was set on becoming a Broadway star while dating the competition.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.• Again: Another elite school, another racial controversy. This time, in Brooklyn Heights. [Daily News]• A.O.C.’s chief of staff: A conservative group claimed Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s chief of staff may have circumvented campaign finance law. [New York Post]• Rezoning: Artists in NoHo and SoHo are concerned that the proposed rezoning of their neighborhoods will lead to displacement. [Curbed]• Back story: The movie “Green Book” was based on real events that began in New York City. [WNYC]Because of the winter storm, it’s best to check before you go.Every Monday during Women’s History Month, the Hamilton Fish library branch will screen a movie about trailblazing women, starting today with “Hidden Figures.” 11 a.m. [Free]A night of barbecue and board games at Queens Bully in Forest Hills. 6 p.m. [Free with food or drink purchase]The New York Public Library’s dance division celebrates its 75th anniversary at the Bruno Walter Auditorium on the Upper West Side. 6 p.m. [Free]An interactive puppet show about the New York City subway at the William Vale hotel in Williamsburg. 4 p.m. [$20, includes complimentary wine]— Iman StevensonEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Mardi Gras, which ends Tuesday, is a celebration of the decadent. So is New York.And yet, Mardi Gras’s famous dessert — the king cake — never really arrived in New York.The cakes are large yeasted pastries (more of a cinnamon roll than a birthday cake) topped with icing and glittery sprinkles. A plastic baby is hidden inside the loaf. Whoever gets the slice with the figurine inside is “king” for the day and obligated to host next year’s Mardi Gras party.“No one has a king cake” in New York, said St. John Frizell, a restaurateur who lived in New Orleans for a decade before moving here in 1999.He was exaggerating, but only a little. A handful of New York establishments sell it, including Whole Foods and some fancy bakeries.Yet, finding good king cake is hard. One man jokingly wrote on Twitter that he was quitting his job “to open a full-time king cake bakery in NYC because I can’t find a single place that reliably sells them.”By now, it’s too late to order the real stuff from New Orleans. And even the delicious-looking substitutes offered by the Doughnut Plant are, somehow, not quite the same.When asked if he served king cake at his restaurant in Red Hook, Mr. Frizell laughed.“You would never see it at a restaurant,” he said. “You do want to experience it, not for the taste but for the sensation of sharing with friends and family at Mardi Gras time.”If you’d like to try making a king cake for your house party, try this New York Times Cooking recipe that serves up to 12.It’s Sunday — dish up something for your friends.Thinking of Our BenchDear Diary:I was thinking of our bench in Central Park today,The one across from the dirt-patch field that seemed to catch each gust of wind.The one where we said that very sorry goodbyeThat floated in the air,Joining the other goodbyesOn that very benchIn that very parkIn this very city.— Diana SanchezNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Christina Goldbaum and Michael Gold contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, The National Enquirer is for sale, and Elon Musk must make nice with the S.E.C.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.You're a busy person, so here's your quick and breezy catch-up on the latest in tech and business news, plus what to know for the week ahead. Your Monday self will be better for it.APRIL 7-13Your ride is (almost) here, but how much is it worth? Uber’s widely anticipated initial public offering, on track for early May, is said to aim for a valuation of $90 billion to $100 billion. That’s significantly lower than the $120 billion that many investors had expected, although it would still be the largest I.P.O. since 2014. Why the falling numbers? For one thing, the ride-sharing company lost $1.8 billion last year, and its growth is slowing. Plus, everyone has been taking note of what happened after the recent I.P.O. of Uber’s smaller rival Lyft. Its shares have already dropped roughly 20 percent below their offering price. The National Enquirer, the checkout-line mainstay known for peddling headlines about aliens on the moon and, more recently, aiding President Trump’s 2016 candidacy, is for sale. The tabloid is led by David J. Pecker, a longtime friend of Mr. Trump’s, and there’s word of a surprising potential buyer: the billionaire Ron Burkle, a Democratic donor with ties to former President Bill Clinton. The publication came under scrutiny for helping Mr. Trump’s political rise by buying the rights to a story from a Playboy model who said she had an affair with him and then never publishing it — a tabloid practice known as catch-and-kill. The Enquirer is now under federal investigation for claims that it threatened Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, with “extortion and blackmail” after exposing details about his extramarital affair. Just what no one wanted: Six more months of Brexit drama. European Union leaders agreed on Wednesday to extend Britain’s withdrawal deadline — again — this time to Oct. 31. Now, British lawmakers will have more time to argue over their long-overdue departure plan, which they’ve already had three years to discuss. While they haggle, businesses will continue to plan for the worst until Brexit trade policies are settled, compromising the country’s economic growth. On the upside, Britain did not crash out of the bloc on Friday without a deal, which could have wreaked economic havoc. But is the extension just prolonging the inevitable? APRIL 14-20Thursday is the deadline for Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, and the Securities and Exchange Commission to work out their differences on Mr. Musk’s Twitter practices. A federal judge in New York has asked both parties to submit a joint letter with clear guidelines about Mr. Musk’s tweets — namely, when Mr. Musk must get approval from a Tesla lawyer before posting. The S.E.C. sought more oversight of Mr. Musk’s communications after he tweeted erroneous information about Tesla more than once, first about taking the company private and later about its production numbers. (Presumably, he will be allowed to keep tweeting about cheese-related flatulence and multicolored squirrels whenever he pleases, as he recently did.) A jury will get to decide whether Apple owes money to the chip manufacturer Qualcomm, which might sound dull if not for the cast of tech stars involved. Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, and Steve Mollenkopf, his counterpart at Qualcomm, are both expected to take the stand at the trial, which begins in San Diego this week. Top brass from other technology companies, like the manufacturing giant Foxconn, are also expected to testify. The showdown is a culmination of a two-year global fight between tech giants, with Qualcomm seeking back payment for chips used in iPhones and Apple disputing Qualcomm’s claims to certain technology. More big banks will release their first-quarter earnings this coming week, and the results may be stronger than expected if JPMorgan’s report on Friday was any indication. Analysts had lowered their projections for bank profits in recent months for a mix of reasons, including the slowing economy and the Federal Reserve’s changing stance on interest rates. Banks’ performances are often seen as a litmus test for overall economic health, and the latest numbers may offer clues to how much we should be worried about a recession — or whether we’re overly paranoid. Disney unveiled plans to take on Netflix with its own streaming service, which will cost $7 a month when it becomes available on Nov. 12. In other news, J. Crew is considering a spinoff of its smaller, fast-growing brand Madewell to raise some much-needed cash. Speaking of crunches, Boeing still has no timetable for getting its grounded 737 Max jets back in the air, and the costs of fixing the planes — and convincing regulators, airlines and passengers that they’re safe to fly — are starting to pile up.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSAN FRANCISCO/SHANGHAI — Amazon.com Inc plans to close its domestic marketplace in China by mid-July, people familiar with the matter told Reuters, focusing efforts on more lucrative businesses selling overseas goods and cloud services in the world's most populous nation.Amazon shoppers in China will no longer be able to buy goods from third-party merchants in the country, but they still will be able to order from the United States, Britain, Germany and Japan via the firm's global store. Amazon expects to close fulfillment centers and wind down support for domestic-selling merchants in China in the next 90 days, one of the people said.The move underscores how entrenched, home-grown e-commerce rivals have made it difficult for Amazon's marketplace to gain a foothold. Consumer insights firm iResearch Global said Alibaba Group Holding Ltd's Tmall marketplace and JD.com Inc controlled 81.9 percent of the Chinese market last year.""They're pulling out because it's not profitable and not growing,"" said analyst Michael Pachter at Wedbush Securities.Ker Zheng, marketing specialist at Shenzhen-based e-commerce consultancy Azoya, said Amazon had no major competitive advantage in China over its domestic rivals. Unless someone is searching for a very specific imported good that can't be found elsewhere, ""there's no reason for a consumer to pick Amazon because they're not going to be able to ship things as fast as Tmall or JD,"" he said.Amazon's customers in China will still be able to purchase the firm's Kindle e-readers and online content, and the company's local website, amazon.cn, will continue to exist, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Amazon Web Services, the company's cloud computing unit that sells data storage and computing power to enterprises, will remain as well.The U.S.-listed shares of Alibaba and JD.com rose 1 percent on Wednesday after Reuters first reported the move, before paring gains later in the day. Amazon's shares closed flat.U.S. RETREATThe withdrawal of the world's largest online retailer - founded by Jeff Bezos, who later became the world's richest person - comes amid a broader e-commerce slowdown in China. Alibaba in January reported its lowest quarterly earnings growth since 2016, while JD.com is responding to the changing business environment with staff cuts.It also follows the Chinese e-commerce retreat of other big-name Western retailers. Walmart Inc sold its Chinese online shopping platform to JD.com in 2016 in return for a stake in JD.com to focus on its bricks-and-mortar stores. Similarly, the country appears to factor less in the global aspirations of fellow U.S. tech majors Netflix Inc, Facebook Inc and Alphabet Inc's Google, Wedbush Securities' Pachter said.Amazon bought Chinese online shopping website Joyo.com in 2004 for $75 million, rebranding the business in 2011 as Amazon China. But in a sign of Tmall's dominance, Amazon opened an online store on the Alibaba site in 2015.Amazon is still expanding aggressively in other countries, notably India, where it is contending with local rival Flipkart. (Reporting by Jeffrey Dastin in SAN FRANCISCO, Cate Cadell and Pei Li in BEIJING, Kane Wu in HONG KONG and Josh Horwitz and Brenda Goh in SHANGHAI; Editing by Susan Thomas and Christopher Cushing)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this ny email? Sign up here.)Saudi Aramco began a road show to pitch prospective investors on a $10 billion bond offering, providing a peek into the state-owned oil company’s books — and showing how incredibly profitable it is.Aramco made $111.1 billion in profit last year, according to data provided to credit ratings agencies. That means it was the world’s most profitable company in 2018, Bloomberg notes, making more than Apple and Alphabet combined.The company produced 13.6 million barrels of oil equivalent a day last year, which far surpasses any other producer, such as Royal Dutch Shell or BP.The disclosures finally shed light on the oil company’s finances and operations. (They were necessary as part of the bond offering that will support Aramco’s $69 billion deal to buy control of a Saudi chemical company, Sabic.)Credit ratings agencies were impressed. Moody’s assigned Aramco’s bonds an A1 rating (though still below the Aaa that it gave to Exxon Mobil). The agency said the biggest risk to the rating was any downgrade to Saudi Arabia’s own financial picture.Facebook’s C.E.O. wrote an opinion piece for the WaPo on Saturday laying out how he believes his company should be treated. His top policy executive, Nick Clegg, echoed its points in an interview with Politico. Here’s how Mike Isaac of the NYT reads between the lines:• Harmful content. Mr. Zuckerberg called for lawmakers to decide “what counts as terrorist propaganda, hate speech and more.” By adhering to the letter of the law, Facebook can effectively shield itself from blame if something goes awry.• Election protection. “Our systems would be more effective if regulation created common standards for verifying political actors,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. That would serve Facebook well, Mr. Isaac writes: “When the next erroneous outburst inevitably occurs, Facebook could point toward the law it was forced to follow.”• Privacy and data protection issues. “I believe it would be good for the internet if more countries adopted regulation such as G.D.P.R. as a common framework,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote, referring to Europe’s data protection rule. If laws are enacted to limit data collection in the future, Mr. Isaac notes, Facebook might be able to squash smaller competitors.• Data portability. “Regulation should guarantee the principle of data portability,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. Facebook claims its users would be able to freely take their information from one network to the next, Mr. Isaac says. But in reality, data portability could help the company combine its platforms, which include Instagram and WhatsApp.More: Facebook will start explaining why people are being shown content in their news feed. The company “mistakenly deleted” many of Mr. Zuckerberg’s old posts. And lawmakers in Australia and New Zealand want to ban “weaponized” social media.As the two countries nudge ever closer to striking an agreement, Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT explain how one of its key tenets could undercut Washington’s vision:• “Any agreement seems certain to involve China’s promise to purchase hundreds of billions of dollars of American goods. For Mr. Trump, this is an essential element that will help reduce the United States’ record trade deficit with China.”• “But those purchases will be ordered by the Chinese state, and most will be carried out by state-controlled Chinese businesses, further cementing Beijing’s role in managing its economy and potentially making United States industries even more beholden to the Chinese.”“Both sides are trying to iron out an agreement by next week, to coincide with a visit to Washington by Liu He, the Chinese special envoy charged with negotiating the deal,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Bradsher write. The goal is reportedly “to have an agreement by the end of that meeting, with a signing ceremony between Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China potentially later this month.”But there are still sticking points. “Those include how an agreement will be monitored and enforced, and how many of Mr. Trump’s tariffs come off and when,” according to Ms. Swanson and Mr. Bradsher.The ride-hailing company began trading on the public markets on Friday, with its stock closing up about 9 percent. But the file of winners is bigger than just those who bought into the stock before it listed:• Gig economy start-ups. Lyft showed that there’s interest in the public markets for companies that rely on part-time employees. (But the big question is still whether they can ever make money.)• The Golden State, truly. Lyft’s success bodes well for its home state, California, which is set to collect a capital-gains tax bonanza from the tech companies planning to go public this year. Alejandro Lazo of the WSJ reports that the state is already expected to draw nearly 10 percent of its revenue for the next fiscal year from tech I.P.O.s — a figure that could grow if the offerings perform better than expected.• Uber. The world’s largest ride-hailing company will probably be heartened by Lyft’s success. One unnamed investor told the FT that a $120 billion valuation for Uber now “doesn’t look too unreasonable.”Who didn’t win: Anyone who bought shares in Lyft after it listed on the Nasdaq.More: Meet the V.C.s who are expected to be big winners from the coming wave of tech I.P.O.s.After rejecting Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal deal for a third time on Friday, British lawmakers will attempt again to come up with an alternative.Parliament will vote on options later today. There are eight proposals, none of which won a majority when they were voted on last week. John Bercow, the speaker of the House of Commons, may trim down the options, which could force cohesion around a plan. Mrs. May continues to scramble. The FT reports that she is considering a fourth vote on her deal, while she grapples with a breakdown of trust inside her Conservative Party.If Parliament remains deadlocked, Britain faces a choice: Leave the European Union without a deal on April 12, or ask Brussels for another extension.There is a feeling of anger and embarrassment. “In interviews, many Britons expressed despair over the inability of the political system to produce a compromise,” Ellen Barry and Benjamin Mueller of the NYT write. “No one feels that the government has represented their interests. No one is satisfied. No one is hopeful. It has amounted to a hollowing out of confidence in democracy itself.”More:  There is at least one Brexit winner in Britain: the corporate law industry, which is profiting from companies trying to prepare.The Amazon chief’s security consultant accused the Saudi government of gaining unauthorized access to Mr. Bezos’ phone, Karen Weise of the NYT reports:• “In an opinion article in The Daily Beast on Saturday, Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ security chief, alleged the Saudis wanted to hurt Mr. Bezos because he owns The Washington Post. The Post has aggressively reported on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, one of its columnists, who was killed last year in Turkey.”• “Mr. de Becker’s claims about the Saudis are difficult to verify and raise many questions. Throughout his article, the security consultant was vague on details.”• “On Sunday, American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, which first reported earlier this year that Mr. Bezos was having an extramarital affair, issued a statement denying ‘the false and unsubstantiated claims of Mr. de Becker.’ ”State lawmakers reached a $175 billion budget deal over the weekend. It promises sweeping changes to the way New Yorkers commute, shop and live, the NYT reports.Congestion pricing — a first in the U.S. — will subject vehicles traveling below 60th Street in Manhattan to a toll. The revenue will go toward the subway and other transportation projects. Specifics, like what the charge will be, have been deferred to other authorities.The state also banned single-use plastic shopping bags, following California and Hawaii.But it dropped plans for a recurring “pied-à-terre tax” of 5 percent on the value of high-end second homes, after opposition from the real estate industry. Instead, lawmakers adopted a “mansion tax” and a real estate transfer tax, two one-time charges that would top out at 4.15 percent on the sale of properties worth at least $25 million.The Louis Dreyfus Company reportedly ousted Gonzalo Ramírez Martiarena as C.E.O. after he started holding deal talks with rivals.Alok Sama, the C.F.O. of SoftBank’s international arm, is reportedly leaving the Japanese tech giant.Deals• The activist hedge fund Starboard Value has dropped its campaign against Bristol-Myers Squibb’s deal to buy Celgene. (CNBC)• The talent agency Endeavor is reportedly preparing an I.P.O. later this year. (WSJ)• Vivendi withdrew a motion to replace directors of Telecom Italia, conceding defeat to Elliott Management. (Bloomberg)• Jonathan Lavine, a managing partner of Bain Capital, worries that private equity firms are piling too much debt onto their deals. (FT)• European lenders are starting to grow wary of giving money to WeWork. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• President Trump reportedly thinks that a lawsuit to overturn the Affordable Care Act — which his administration is backing — will fail. (Axios)• A federal judge ruled against the White House’s plan to open up the Arctic Ocean for oil drilling. (NYT)• Joe Biden scrambled to defend himself after a former Nevada lawmaker accused him of inappropriately kissing and touching her. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren has lost her presidential campaign’s finance director after a disagreement over abandoning big-ticket donors. (NYT)• Mr. Trump reportedly wants to “save” Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s seat on the Supreme Court for Amy Coney Barrett, a conservative federal judge who opposes abortion. (Axios)Boeing• The inquiry into the fatal Ethiopian Airlines crash is said to believe a faulty anti-stall sensor was to blame. (NYT)• “Pitch up, pitch up”: the final minutes of the doomed flight. (WSJ)• U.S. and Ethiopian investigators are reportedly clashing over the investigation. (WSJ)Tech• The initial coin offering market has ground to a halt. (WSJ)• Google has stopped serving ads in China for two websites that help bypass censorship. Skeptics say the move is an attempt to appeal to Beijing. (FT)• Alphabet’s A.I. subsidiary, DeepMind, is readying its first commercial product: a device that will diagnose some complex eye diseases in real time. (FT)• Some consumers are accusing Tesla of using upselling tricks to move more expensive cars. (Quartz)Best of the rest• Michael Avenatti has taken on many high-profile legal fights, but his biggest yet is his own court case. (NYT)• How the financier Morrie Tobin became the whistle-blower in the college admissions scandal. (LAT)• A federal judge wants to limit PG&E’s dividends to force the utility to reduce the risk of causing California wildfires. (WSJ)• How tens of thousands of far-right extremists helped swindle $1 billion from the federal government. (NYT)• Burger King is introducing a meat-free “Impossible Whopper.” (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNo RegretsTimothée Chalamet went to the Amazon party. Taylor Swift was at InStyle. And Jon Voight was in the hallway.22 PhotosView Slide Show ›By Ben WiddicombeThey sought her here, they sought her there. They sought Lady Gaga everywhere.At the half-dozen parties held at the Beverly Hilton hotel following the Golden Globes on Sunday night, it seemed as though every celebrity was looking for the singer and nominated actress, if only to touch the hem of her enormous periwinkle gown.“I wanted to meet Lady Gaga, I really did,” said Chuck Lorre, who won a Globe for producing Netflix’s “The Kominsky Method.” “I would have said thank you for all the great work she does.”But the artist was not present. After winning for best song (and losing in the best acting category) Lady Gaga somehow managed to vanish in a puff of Valentino taffeta. (Her rep noted that she stopped by one party, hosted by InStyle and Warner Bros.)Other stars were there to be seen but not heard. At Amazon’s after-party, held at the hotel’s Stardust Penthouse, Timothée Chalamet begged off interviews so he could dance with his mother, Nicole Flender.Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder and chief executive, stood nearby grinning from ear to ear, surrounded by a trio of statuesque women in sequined and metallic dresses. He, too, declined an interview.Mr. Bezos placed a morsel from the raw seafood bar into his mouth, but immediately spat it back into a napkin. “Bad oyster,” he said.Elsewhere in the hotel, the talk turned to the night’s political tone.“I thought tonight was perfect, because it was still celebratory and there were some very poignant and powerful political moments,” said Patricia Clarkson, who was at the HBO party, clutching her Globe for best supporting actress in “Sharp Objects.” “I’m thankful to these women for speaking out. It’s changed everything.”In the hallway outside, Regina King, who won for best supporting actress in “If Beale Street Could Talk,” was swarmed by well-wishers congratulating her on an acceptance speech in which she pledged to include “50 percent women” in projects she produced.Ms. King said her remarks were ad-libbed. “You don’t want to ever prepare a speech, because you feel like you may jinx yourself,” she said. “But then the moment happens and your mind just rushes.”At the Netflix party, Alfonso Cuarón celebrated his best director award for “Roma.” “Art by essence is political, no matter what kind of film you do,” he said. “It’s not a political event, but I think the politics come out of the films.”Laura Dern went further. “If you’re a public figure and you’re given a mic, there’s a lot to say right now,” she said, standing by a towering arrangement of roses at the InStyle party. She barely noticed Taylor Swift and her boyfriend, Joe Alwyn, who moved so fluidly across the red carpet and then immediately out a side door that they seemed to be passing through some kind of celebrity digestive tract.“Outrageous acts within our own country occur, like the incarceration of children who are seeking asylum in this country, and are risking violence in these camps,” Ms. Dern added. “Hopefully we keep talking about it.”Standing at the other end of the hotel, and the ideological spectrum, was Jon Voight. The conservative actor sees the prevailing political winds in Hollywood as oppressive, rather than liberating.“People are very cautious about what they say now, and they didn’t use to be,” Mr. Voight said, who was in the hallway, presumably heading to a party. He wore a fringed white scarf over his tuxedo. “The generation before my generation was very patriotic, and it’s changed, and that’s unfortunate.”Still, Mr. Voight agreed with his fellow actors on one thing. “I hope I bump into Lady Gaga, who’s just terrific,” he said. “A huge talent, and I think she’s a really nice gal, too.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Thursday. Tonight is the debut of Showtime’s “Desus & Mero.” Its first guest is Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.Weather: It’s a no-umbrella day. Drier and warmer right through tomorrow.Alternate-side parking: Suspended today for snow removal. The next scheduled suspension will be on March 6 (Ash Wednesday).Few jobs guarantee upward mobility. But there is one job that seems like a pretty good springboard: New York City public advocate.[The race for public advocate: 7 factors that will help decide who wins.]Of the four people who have held the position since it was created in 1993, two went on to higher office (Letitia James and Bill de Blasio), and one came within a hair of becoming mayor (Mark Green — remember him?).The fourth, Betsy Gotbaum, didn’t run for higher office but took over a nonprofit organization and was recently called “the godmother of good government.”The office is vacant, and 17 people are running for it.There is a special election on Tuesday, and because there is no primary, and no runoff if the top finisher gets less than 40 percent of the vote, it appears that anyone could win. A handful of votes could be decisive.The election is also nonpartisan.Am I registered to vote?Check this state website.Where do I vote?Look up your polling location on this site, created by the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University.What are the issues?One is Amazon. Most candidates acknowledged that they purchased goods from the company, but also said that they opposed its plan to build a headquarters in Long Island City. Only Eric Ulrich, a Republican city councilman from Queens, said he supported the deal.Another is diversity. The mayor, city comptroller and City Council speaker are all white men. That doesn’t reflect New York’s population.Some candidates said that the next public advocate could add more diversity to the field of citywide officeholders. Roughly two-thirds of the 17 candidates are people of color, and four are women.How long will the winner serve?Only through the end of the year. There’s a primary for the position in June and a general election in November. The winner of that race will serve the remainder of Ms. James’s term, which ends in 2021.Who is running?My colleague Jeffery C. Mays has a list and a detailed look at the race.The Times’s Patrick McGeehan reports:Is it possible that the world’s richest man-in-the-news could waltz into Midtown Manhattan in broad daylight and not make headlines?Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, above left, pulled off that trick yesterday, appearing at the Yale Club without addressing the topics the news media was buzzing about.He didn’t talk about his company’s withdrawal from a deal to build a second headquarters in New York. Or his claim that The National Enquirer publisher had tried to blackmail him with copies of intimate pictures.His audience, after all, was not the media but the Wings Club, a group of aviation industry professionals. And his purpose was to brief them on his space-travel company, Blue Origin.Attendees said Mr. Bezos mentioned Amazon only in passing and offered nothing about its plan to use drones to deliver packages. He didn’t even go for a laugh by joking about the helipad Amazon had requested in New York.Shortly after 2 p.m., Mr. Bezos, having fielded no unscripted questions, hustled into an S.U.V.Subway fatality: A man died at Grand Central Station after a train pulled him into a tunnel. Cohen sentence: Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer, must report to prison on May 6 instead of next month.Background story: New York’s new sex-abuse law was pushed by a lawmaker who said she was driven by her son’s experience.Cash discrimination: New York City may join a national push to prevent stores from not accepting customers paying by cash.Pizza upgrade: The Brooklyn brothers who pioneered the dollar pizza slice have a new shop, with a $3 slice.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.El Chapo juror: An account of the deliberations, from an anonymous juror. [Vice News]Taxi medallion bailout: Two City Council members are working on it. [New York Post]Off beat: The police officer who married the country music star Miranda Lambert is no longer patrolling Times Square. [New York Post]Honoring Anthony Bourdain: New Jersey lawmakers may make a food trail to honor the late chef. [Food and Wine]Last call? The owner of the Moore Bar and Lounge said that it was the last black-owned L.G.B.T.Q. club in New York City, and that it might close. [NBC]Watch “The Lost Tapes: Malcolm X” at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, in Harlem. 3 p.m. [Free]Rena Anakwe’s performance based on a “water ritual” at the Issue Project Room in Downtown Brooklyn. 8 p.m. [$10 suggested donation]A conversation about the Jewish socialist movement of the late 1800s and early 1900s at the Museum of Jewish Heritage in Battery Park City. 7 p.m. [Free]— Elisha Brown Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.On display at the Society of Illustrators is the work of Dale Messick, the “grand dame of the funnies.”She got her start thanks to The New York Daily News. Sort of.Ms. Messick, above, was born in Indiana but found her way to New York by illustrating greeting cards. While here, she saw a newspaper contest seeking a new cartoonist. Ms. Messick sent in her drawings of a character named Brenda Starr, who was a bandit.As The Times wrote in 2005, Ms. Messick was talked into making her a reporter by an aide to Joseph Medill Patterson, the founder and publisher of The Daily News.The Society of Illustrators offered a more nuanced version of the story. Mr. Patterson, it said, “swore he would never publish a woman cartoonist — and went so far as to throw away anything sent in by a woman.” An assistant to Mr. Patterson, Mollie Slott, “pulled Messick’s work out of the trash” and suggested making the character a reporter.“Brenda Starr, Reporter” debuted in June 1940 and was, at one point, syndicated in 250 newspapers. The comic was made into several movies.Ms. Starr’s depictions of journalism was, perhaps, well suited for the funny pages. She once handed a story to “a custodian, who somehow gets it into the next day’s paper,” The Times wrote.But Ms. Starr’s real message was about a hard-charging woman succeeding in a man’s world. At a time when women faced discrimination at almost every turn, Ms. Starr was an inspiring figure.The exhibition is on display until March 23.It’s Thursday — read about someone who doesn’t look like you.Dear Diary:It was 1950. I was 18. So was Rita. We had met in high school. I was attending art school at night at Cooper Union. During the day I was working as an assistant for Maxwell Starr at his private art school on Central Park West in the West 80s.One of his students, Theresa, worked at the ticket window at Radio City Music Hall. Whenever Rita and I wanted to see a show, Theresa let us in free.Rita and I planned to get married, and I decided to propose to her at that majestic place. We went to a show and, afterward, we went downstairs to the lounge and found a quiet corner.I retrieved a ring from my pocket. It was a modest ring. It had belonged to my grandmother, whose family immigrated to America from Poland in the early 1900s. My mother had given it to me for this purpose.I presented the ring to Rita and asked her to marry me. She was thrilled, especially in that glorious setting. Later, we returned to our families’ apartments, a 15-minute walk apart in Borough Park, Brooklyn.Rita went to her mother’s bedroom and found her asleep. She woke her up and excitedly announced the proposal, showing her the ring.“For that you woke me up?” her mother said.— Irving BenderNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article misstated when alternate-side parking was suspended. The next suspension was today, not March 6.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Trip Gabriel and Peter EavisThe decision by Amazon this week to abandon its planned headquarters in New York City tapped into one of the major themes of left-wing Democrats: that giant corporations — and in some cases the billionaires who run them — must be held to account for wage inequality, corporate greed and middle-class stagnation.And some contenders and would-be contenders for the party’s 2020 presidential nomination were quick to take a victory lap over the retailer’s sudden reversal.The economic incentives offered the company amounted to no more than “taxpayer bribes,” said Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who accused Amazon of holding American democracy “hostage.”.@Amazon – one of the wealthiest companies on the planet – just walked away from billions in taxpayer bribes, all because some elected officials in New York aren't sucking up to them enough. How long will we allow giant corporations to hold our democracy hostage? https://t.co/O9pz7en43BSenator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who has introduced the “Stop BEZOS Act” to tax companies that he says underpay employees, congratulated New Yorkers “for standing up to the power of Amazon.”Their blunt condemnation of Amazon underscores the extent to which this has become an animating issue for the far left. And their reaction is one act in a broader set of 2020 issues for progressive Democrats that includes the Green New Deal, which proposes far-reaching federal intervention in the economy to tackle climate change, and the determination to rein in leviathan tech companies, whose founders have lost their luster as heroes of a new economy.Candidates and potential candidates perceived as more centrist did not immediately weigh in, reflecting one of the fault lines in a Democratic Party wrestling over who is the best standard-bearer to suit up for a coming titanic struggle with President Trump. Some candidates, like Senators Cory Booker of New Jersey and Kamala Harris of California, have deeper connections to tech companies.The views of centrists may have been channeled by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, who slammed fellow Democrats for putting “their own narrow political interests above their community.”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]The sudden unraveling of the Amazon deal on Thursday meant the company’s promise of 25,000 jobs in New York City would be unfulfilled over opposition to the city and state’s offer of $3 billion in tax incentives, which highlighted the practice of luring businesses to states and cities with promises of big tax breaks.“There are large questions philosophically about whether taxpayers should give billions of dollars to billionaires,” said Gordon Hintz, the Democratic minority leader of the Wisconsin State Assembly, who is a critic of a state deal in 2017 to lure the electronics giant Foxconn with $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies.“There’s frustration in the public right now where wealth is being concentrated, the opportunities for economic mobility are lower, and they see the people who receive these deals seemingly unconcerned with their reality,” he added.Wisconsin, a battleground state that Mr. Trump narrowly won in 2016 as part of his appeal to white blue-collar voters, is certain to be a crossroads of national Democratic contenders ahead of 2020, as they try to win back some of those voters and excite others who stayed home. That Mr. Trump played a role in the Foxconn deal — and jumped in again recently when the Taiwan-based company wavered — is a ready-made target for Democrats inclined to criticize corporate giveaways.Mr. Hintz said the issue played a role in the re-election loss last year of Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican.Even as New York sent Amazon packing, other cities and regions renewed their courtship of the company. On Thursday, Newark officials sent a courier in red to deliver a giant heart-shaped card to the company bearing the Valentine’s Day message that the city and New Jersey “still love u, Amazon!”[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Mr. Booker, who is seeking the Democratic nomination, has made no comment on the deal. A Democratic county chairman in Iowa, Kurt Meyer, who put Mr. Booker up overnight on a recent swing through the state, predicted that criticisms of large corporations would feature in appeals to the party base there, which is more progressive than in many states. Iowa’s $208 million in incentives for an Apple data center near Des Moines with just 50 jobs was debated in last year’s midterm elections.“I suspect the issue will be exploited extensively in Iowa, due in part to our vague but distinct sense of economic insecurity, which, while unrelated to Amazon and Apple, is pretty dry tinder,” Mr. Meyer said.At a CNN town hall in Iowa last month, Ms. Harris was asked if the existence of multibillionaires was “morally defensible.” She replied that the 2017 Republican tax cut bill was “unconscionable” for giving breaks to corporations and those in the top 1 percent but excluding working families.Amazon’s decision to cancel its deal with New York also comes at a time when prominent Democratic lawmakers in Washington are crafting legislation and advocating policies that could constrain or even break up large technology companies.In the past two years, big scandals in the technology sector have made privacy and the security of social media networks hotly debated issues. Russian entities used Facebook’s network to try and influence the 2016 presidential election. The Cambridge Analytica scandal revealed that Facebook users’ data had been misused.Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat and candidate for president, is sponsoring a bill that would require disclosure about who is paying for online political advertising. Ms. Warren supports antitrust policies. Mr. Sanders’s Stop BEZOS Act, named for the chief executive of Amazon, Jeff Bezos, would tax corporations whose low-wage workers find it necessary to rely on food stamps and government health care benefits.The push to step up regulation may have support among the public. In a Pew Research poll last year, 55 percent of the respondents said technology companies had too much power and influence, compared with 37 percent who said the firms had the right amount.But not every party official believes in shaming corporate chieftains and corporations.In northeast Ohio, Representative Tim Ryan, a Democrat whose district recently lost 1,600 jobs with the shutdown of a plant making the Chevrolet Cruze, wrote a letter on Friday imploring Amazon to build a second headquarters there.Mr. Ryan, in an interview, predicted that everyone at the basketball game he planned to attend Friday night at Howland High School, where his daughter is a cheerleader, would be talking about how to lure Amazon and its jobs to the area.Ohio is a swing state that Democrats, including Senator Sherrod Brown, who is weighing a presidential bid, would like to win back in 2020.“It doesn’t serve us well to be hostile to business in general,” Mr. Ryan said. “We need them. We can’t reverse climate change. We can’t rebuild manufacturing. We can’t retool work force development without a partnership with the free enterprise system.”OpinionAmy LiuAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byHistory is clear: A city that rejects economic opportunity will lose its status as the center of the business world.By Kenneth T. JacksonProfessor Jackson is a historian at Columbia University.On Nov. 13, 2018, Amazon announced that New York would become one of two locations for the company’s second North American headquarters, ending a competition that had involved more than 200 places, including cities as diverse as Chicago, Atlanta, Denver, Newark and Austin, Tex. But there was hardly any cheering in New York. State Senator Michael Gianaris and other leaders protested that the agreement was bad for New York and bad for its people. They argued that it is absurd for city and state taxpayers to subsidize one of the world’s most valuable companies, owned by the world’s richest man, with as much as $3 billion in taxpayer money.They are right about one thing. It is absurd that any city would agree to such a deal. But this is how the game is played. Paying companies to relocate has been the American way since 1936, when Mississippi established the nation’s first state-sponsored economic development plan. Under that plan, since followed by many other jurisdictions, cities and states agreed to pay companies to relocate by promising them new factories and low or nonexistent taxes. With those inducements, numerous businesses relocated in the decades after World War II, usually from the union-dominated Northeast and Midwest to the business-friendly South. In this historical context, New York’s deal for Amazon is not a bad deal at all. But its opponents have condemned it, partly because the negotiations were held in secret and because the constituents most involved in the decision were not consulted. Absent serious renegotiations, they want Amazon to take its promise of 25,000 new jobs somewhere else. The greatest city in the world, they say, need not kneel before capitalist royalty.Can the Empire City really afford to turn away from this opportunity? Clearly, New York has overcome dozens of economic crises in its nearly four centuries of history. It was almost destroyed by fire in 1776 and 1778, and in 1835, the Great Fire of New York destroyed more than 600 structures and most of what is now Lower Manhattan. The 1863 Draft Riot took at least 100 lives and continues to rank as the worst civil disturbance in American history. The 1977 blackout resulted in widespread looting and property destruction — the low point in a dark period. And the worst of all, in terms of the loss of human life, was the attack on the World Trade Center in 2001, which killed 2,753 people. The attack also destroyed more than 10 million square feet of real estate, and the resulting crisis cost the region 223,000 jobs in just two years.The potential loss of the Amazon headquarters would be more akin to a long-term disaster. During the 20th century, the city lost its two main economic underpinnings: its manufacturing base and its role as the busiest seaport on earth. In 1955, for example, about a million people worked in New York City’s factories, and in its crowded harbor, tramp steamers, ocean liners and tugboats struggled to avoid one another. New York was the leading industrial city in the world.And yet, by 1980, a quarter-century later, the major job centers in the five boroughs had essentially collapsed. In 1900, New York had 90 breweries and was the beer capital of the nation. But by 1976, the last brewery in the city was gone, and Milwaukee and St. Louis were competing for beer supremacy. Similarly, in 1950, New York’s 300,000 textile workers made most of the women’s clothes sold in the United States. The city had no serious rival. But by 2017, only about 20,000 such workers remained. New York’s job losses were not only blue-collar. During the 1970s, the city experienced an exodus of Fortune 500 corporations. Dozens of them moved their headquarters and took their executives with them. Some went to suburbs in Connecticut and New Jersey, but many more decamped for Atlanta, Dallas or Houston. The impact on the city was dramatic. Not only did workers laid off from those companies lose their jobs, but their spouses and children suffered as well. Many of them, as demographic statistics reveal, had to move to other states to make a living. Their departure was hidden by the fact that they were often replaced by millions of newcomers from other countries, but those immigrants could not immediately compensate for all those lost jobs.The region now faces a calamity almost as bad as anything that has happened in the past. The loss of Amazon would cost 25,000 jobs directly, and those workers would support up to 82,000 more indirect jobs. The subsidies New York has offered to Amazon would have been given to any company promising so many jobs. And Amazon is expected to pay more than $27 billion in taxes over the next 25 years. Amazon will also build four million square feet of office space in Queens, providing billions more in construction spending. More important, a new Amazon headquarters on the East River would signal that the future of this metropolis is as great as its past.If Mr. Gianaris and his supporters have their way, and Amazon retreats to Nashville or Atlanta or some other more welcoming city, the mail order house that Jeff Bezos built will probably suffer little. But New York will lose its reputation as a center of economic opportunity, and the city will sink in status and importance. And its legislators and politicians will solidify their reputation as the most overpaid and incompetent in the nation.Amazon’s opponents should take a longer-term view. If there is no economic opportunity, there are no jobs. If there are no jobs, there is no tax revenue. And without taxes, jobs and opportunity, New York will no longer be first among cities. Kenneth T. Jackson is a professor of history at Columbia University and the editor in chief of The Encyclopedia of New York City.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Another attempt in Parliament to control the Brexit process, a special look at Indian elections and a global search for “Salvator Mundi.” Here’s the latest:Late Monday in Britain, lawmakers will try again to come up with an alternative to Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan, which they have now rejected three times.Chances of success appear minimal. None of the eight options that were on the table last week managed to fetch a majority in Parliament, and fewer are likely to be considered in this round.Failure would leave the country with two unappealing options: leave the E.U. in a little over a week without a deal or delay Brexit further.Analysis: “In interviews, many Britons expressed despair over the inability of the political system to produce a compromise,” our London correspondents Ellen Barry and Benjamin Mueller write. “No one feels that the government has represented their interests. No one is satisfied. No one is hopeful.“It has amounted to a hollowing out of confidence in democracy itself.”The winners: One industry that seems to be booming amid the Brexit chaos: law firms dealing with client concerns about the legal ramifications of the divorce with the E.U. The president, emboldened by his attorney general’s public characterization of the Mueller report, has threatened to close off parts of the U.S. border with Mexico this week. He also ordered the State Department to cut off aid to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, saying the three countries were not doing enough to stop migrants from pushing north.In recent weeks, Border Patrol facilities have been strained by an influx of migrants — the largest annual surge in years — ahead of the arrival of the deadly summer heat.Impact: Sealing the border would effectively close off the U.S. from one of its largest trading partners, and could leave American citizens who travel back and forth stuck in limbo.Conditions: Processing stations across the 1,900-mile border with Mexico were not expanded despite projections of the influx, and makeshift additions have been overwhelmed.One camp under a bridge in El Paso, Tex., which one volunteer described as resembling a “concentration camp,” was cleared out following an outcry over conditions there.In the aftermath of the live-streamed massacre in Christchurch, New Zealand, lawmakers in both countries are considering sweeping new policies that would restrict the kind of content permitted on social media platforms.If the two countries move ahead, their regulations could serve as models for the rest of the world amid growing frustration and anger with Silicon Valley giants.But the efforts walk a fine line between intervention and censorship. For established democracies that cherish free speech, China’s sophisticated system of suppressing online content could be seen as a cautionary tale.Over the weekend: Social media companies are themselves beginning to converge around the need for new rules. Mark Zuckerberg invited Congress to regulate Facebook and other social media networks in an opinion piece for The Washington Post. He suggested they focus on harmful content, election integrity, privacy and data portability.With around 900 million voters, almost 2,000 registered parties and five weeks of voting, the Indian elections can seem cacophonous. Even for your briefing writer, a diaspora Indian, they’re difficult to follow. The country’s myriad states, cultures and socioeconomic segments can’t be sliced into left or right, red or blue. It’s a kaleidoscope, and each prism illuminates a different aspect of the political spectrum.But it is also heartening to watch this young democracy exercising a right denied to many in the surrounding region. And it is important: What happens in India can end up shifting the global economy and geopolitical landscape.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his right-wing Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party are seeking to retain power, facing a surging challenge by the opposition Congress Party. The briefing will be regularly unpacking aspects of the race. Voting unfolds from from April 11 until May 19 and results are announced on May 23.For now, keep in mind that the backdrop for the campaigning is a flammable mix of economic, religious and national security issues. Unemployment is high, sectarian violence has risen, farmers across the country are increasingly frustrated and there’s a broad disillusionment with politicians.Send us your feedback and any questions you have about the elections here.Taiwan: Two Chinese fighter jets crossed the self-ruled island’s maritime border, a move Taiwanese officials condemned as “provocative,” saying it “seriously impacted regional safety and stability.”Jeff Bezos: The Amazon founder’s security consultant accused the Saudi government of hacking Mr. Bezos’ phone, motivated by the aggressive coverage in The Washington Post, which Mr. Bezos also owns, of the murder of Jamal Khashoggi. The consultant provided no evidence but said he had turned his findings over to law enforcement.Boeing 737: Black box data from the doomed Ethiopian Airlines flight suggests that a faulty sensor that erroneously activated an automated stabilizing system on the jet caused the crash, a sequence also suspected in the crash of a Lion Air flight in October.Joe Biden: The former vice president, accused of touching and kissing a Nevada candidate just before appearing in support of her political campaign in 2014, released a statement saying he didn’t believe he acted inappropriately but admitted to making “expressions of affection” on the campaign trail. He is expected to announce whether he will run for president soon.Arctic drilling: A U.S. federal judge ruled that President Trump’s executive order to lift an Obama-era ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean was unlawful, keeping the drilling ban in “full force” and hindering Mr. Trump’s efforts to undo his predecessor’s environmental legacy.North Korea: The country said that a mysterious raid of its embassy in Madrid last month, led by a Mexican man who lives in the U.S., was a “grave terrorist attack” and a “flagrant violation of international law.”Afghanistan: The country’s vice president, Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, survived the latest in a series of Taliban attacks. The insurgent group’s list of grievances against the former warlord leads with the deaths of thousands of Taliban prisoners who surrendered to his forces in late 2001, many of whom suffocated in sealed trucks en route to prison.“Salvator Mundi”: The location of the famed painting attributed to Leonardo da Vinci has been a mystery since last year, shortly after a Saudi royal, most likely the crown prince, paid $450 million for it.The Kardashians: For more than a decade, the family has turned its feuding on reality TV into business opportunities. “People don’t know how much work goes into it,” the family matriarch, Kris Jenner, said in an interview with The Times.111 years young: Two British men, Alfred Smith and Bob Weighton, have lived through two world wars, more than 20 prime ministers and the entire rule of Queen Elizabeth II. Their advice for longevity? “Avoid dying,” and “porridge is helpful.”Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Alison Roman’s spicy noodle soup with mushrooms and herbs is a deeply flavored vegetarian dinner.Time management can only get you so far. The true key to productivity, according to Adam Grant, a Wharton School expert, is attention management.Hostels are the best way to travel cheaply all over the world.The Bauhaus art school celebrates the centennial of its founding today.The Modernist school (whose name comes from the German for “house building”) was among the first to combine the teaching of crafts, design, architecture and fine art.Walter Gropius, the architect who established the school in 1919 in Weimar, Germany, wrote in the Bauhaus’s program that the ultimate aim was the “unified work of art.”And he enlisted masters of various artistic disciplines, such as Wassily Kandinsky, Laszlo Moholy-Nagy and Paul Klee, to join the Bauhaus faculty.The school survived for little more than a decade before it was shut down in 1933 under pressure from the Nazis.But its legacy of uniting art and functional design in everyday life is long-lasting, and Bauhaus principles were spread worldwide.Anna Schaverien, from our London newsroom, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Tuesday.Weather: Sunny skies. The temperatures will get into the mid-40s, but the windchill may have you reaching for a scarf.Alternate-side parking: In effect until March 21 (Purim).The real estate mogul Harry Macklowe erected 42-foot-tall photographs of himself and his new wife on a Park Avenue building last week for the whole world — including his ex-wife, who lives nearby — to see.It was the latest example of how New York has been uniquely shaped by the idiosyncrasies of the superrich.Sometimes the results, like vanity addresses on buildings, are seemingly harmless. Other times, they have changed how New York looks and feels.Here are a few other instances:Stephen A. Schwarzman’s libraryIn 2008, the Wall Street financier Stephen A. Schwarzman donated $100 million to the New York Public Library on Fifth Avenue, resulting in his name’s being inscribed on the building five times. Soon it will be six.Robert Moses’ two-mile detourThe Northern State Parkway on Long Island bypasses the neighborhood of Wheatley Hills because, according to the historian Robert Caro, very rich residents persuaded the master builder Robert Moses to redesign his roadway plans.Barry Diller’s parkInitially, the plan for a new park on the West Side of Manhattan was modest, and the billionaire Barry Diller was tapped to help fund it. “He embraced the notion, but brought in his own experts and commissioned a space age structure,” The New York Times reported in 2017.Before Mr. Diller got involved, the park was projected to cost $35 million; its budget has since ballooned to $250 million. Jeff Bezos’ planned helipadWhen Amazon was looking to open a major campus, Governor Cuomo and Mayor de Blasio lured it with nearly $3 billion in tax incentives and waterfront property in Long Island City. “They even agreed to allow a helipad for Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive,” The Times’s J. David Goodman reported last year. (Could you imagine him taking the 7 train?)The company eventually backed out of the whole deal because of local opposition.Donald J. Trump’s propertiesOf course, this list wouldn’t be complete without mentioning Donald J. Trump, whose eponymous developments proliferated throughout New York City for decades before he became president. Even Wollman Rink in Central Park has the Trump name on it.Since the 2016 election, there has been a push to strip his name from some buildings and even a state park.Know of any other examples? Email us at nytoday@nytimes.com.  A glittering goodbye to Hector Xtravaganza. New Yorkers gathered to memorialize the life of the L.G.B.T. icon.Black lawmakers in New York say they’ll block marijuana legalization unless their communities benefit from what could be a $3 billion industry.State lawmakers are backing a pied-à-terre tax on multimillion-dollar second homes in New York. They say it will help fund the city’s ailing subway system.A shipping manifest said the container held dried fruit. Inside was 3,200 pounds of cocaine.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.There were 48 fire deaths in New York City in 2016. In 2018, the figure was 88. [New York Post]More schools will provide meatless lunches. [NY1]A black neighborhood on Long Island defied the odds and won disaster aid. [WNYC]Ambush Comedy, a stand-up show at Two Boots in Williamsburg. Arrive between 8 and 8:30 p.m. to grab a free beer and maybe a slice of pizza. [Free]Join writers, performers and comedians in choosing queer icons at the “Hail Mary: Our Queer Saints” show at the Footlight Bar in Ridgewood. 7 p.m. [$5]Learn the basics of watercoloring at a workshop for beginners at the South Beach Library in Staten Island. 5 p.m. [Free]A talk on the “Frida Kahlo: Appearances Can Be Deceiving” exhibit at the Brooklyn Museum. 3 p.m. [Free with $20 admission to the exhibition]— Derek Norman Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.It’s hard to overstate the revolutionary impact that bicycles have had on mankind.Paved roads were made for cyclists, not drivers, one author has argued.The Times’s Natalie Angier wrote, “Bicycles also gave birth to our national highway system.” And Ms. Angier also noted that suffragist Susan B. Anthony said, “I think it has done more to emancipate women than any one thing in the world.”There are, of course, more recent examples of the impact of bicycles.In 2008, an East Harlem resident, Dulcie Canton, had not just one but half a dozen jobs: dog-walking, cat-sitting, fine-arts modeling, coffee shop barista, just to name a few. And she biked to each of them. Why? “I was struggling to make MetroCard money,” she said in a recent interview.“I thought of cycling as a way to save money, going to my gigs,” Ms. Canton said. Besides, she added, “mass transit is crazy.”So, she hopped on her bike and rode. Later, Ms. Canton connected with other female cyclists of color through groups like Black Girls Do Bike and Brown Bike Girl. “I felt like I found my family,” she said.Ms. Canton now works as the Brooklyn organizer for Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group that promotes bicycle and pedestrian-friendly policies.The “first human-powered two-wheeled machines,” debuted in New York in 1819, according to a news release from the Museum of the City of New York. Those machines did not have pedals, and riders mainly coasted. Those machines were called velocipedes.Bicycles have evolved a lot since then.On Thursday, the museum will open the exhibit “Cycling in the City: A 200-Year History.” It will explore the history and cultures of cycling, as well as the machines themselves. The exhibit includes 150 objects, 14 bicycles and three stationary bicycles.The exhibit runs (or rides!) through Oct. 6.It’s Tuesday — make your own path.Dear Diary:I was stepping up to order at Planet Smoothie in Penn Station when a man who had just gotten a smoothie stomped back to the counter.“What’s in this?” he said.The cashier looked nonplused.“Which one did you order, again?” he said.The man waved at the board on the wall. The cashier continued to have a nervous look on his face.“It looks like strawberries, blueberries, nonfat yogurt,” he said.“I can read,” the man said. “But it doesn’t taste like it.”The people waiting behind me began to shuffle impatiently. The cashier shrugged and shifted his feet. Two other employees moved in closer. I started contemplating whether a smoothie was worth waiting out this scene for.“I can make you another one if you like?” the cashier said.There was a pause.“Nope, that’s all right, it’s good, ” the man said. “I like it, and I was just hoping for the recipe to make it at home.”— Janine YoongNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the Mexican artist who is the topic of a talk and exhibit at the Brooklyn Museum. She is Frida Kahlo, not Khalo.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSAN FRANCISCO/BEIJING/HONG KONG — Amazon.com Inc said it will shut its China online store by July 18, as the U.S. e-commerce giant focuses on the lucrative businesses of selling overseas goods and cloud services in the world's most populous nation.The move underscores how entrenched, home-grown e-commerce rivals have made it difficult for Amazon's marketplace to gain traction in China. Consumer research firm iResearch Global said Alibaba Group Holding's Tmall marketplace and JD.com controlled 82 percent of the Chinese e-commerce market last year.An Amazon spokeswoman told Reuters on Thursday that it is notifying sellers that it will no longer operate a marketplace, nor provide seller services on Amazon.cn.Sources familiar with its plans had told Reuters a day before that the company had planned to make such a move. ""We are working closely with our sellers to ensure a smooth transition and to continue to deliver the best customer experience possible,"" the spokeswoman said in a statement.""Sellers interested in continuing to sell on Amazon outside of China are able to do so through Amazon Global Selling.""The sources said that Amazon shoppers in China will no longer be able to buy goods from third-party merchants in the country, but they still will be able to order from the United States, Britain, Germany and Japan via the firm's global store. Amazon will wind down support for domestic-selling merchants in China in the next 90 days and review the impact on its fulfilment centers in the country, some of which it may close, one of the people said.""They're pulling out because it's not profitable and not growing,"" said analyst Michael Pachter at Wedbush Securities.Ker Zheng, marketing specialist at Shenzhen-based e-commerce consultancy Azoya, said Amazon had no major competitive advantage in China over its domestic rivals. Unless someone is searching for a very specific imported good that can't be found elsewhere, ""there's no reason for a consumer to pick Amazon because they're not going to be able to ship things as fast as Tmall or JD,"" he said.The Amazon spokeswoman said that the company would continue to invest and grow in China through its Amazon Global Store, Global Selling, Kindle e-readers and online content. Amazon Web Services, the company's cloud computing unit that sells data storage and computing power to enterprises, will also remain.U.S.-listed shares of Alibaba and JD.com rose 1 percent on Wednesday after Reuters first reported the move, before paring gains later in the day. Amazon's shares closed flat.E-COMMERCE SLOWDOWNThe withdrawal of the world's largest online retailer - founded by Jeff Bezos, who later became the world's richest person - comes amid a broader e-commerce slowdown in China. Alibaba in January reported its slowest quarterly earnings growth since 2016, while JD.com is responding to the changing business environment with staff cuts.It also follows the Chinese e-commerce retreat of other big-name Western retailers. Walmart Inc sold its Chinese online shopping platform to JD.com in 2016 in return for a stake in JD.com to focus on its bricks-and-mortar stores. Similarly, the country appears to factor less in the global aspirations of fellow U.S. tech majors Netflix Inc, Facebook Inc and Alphabet Inc's Google, Wedbush Securities' Pachter said.Amazon bought Chinese online shopping website Joyo.com in 2004 for $75 million, rebranding the business in 2011 as Amazon China. But in a sign of Tmall's dominance, Amazon opened an online store on the Alibaba site in 2015.Amazon is still expanding aggressively in other countries, notably India, where it is contending with local rival Flipkart. (Reporting by Jeffrey Dastin in SAN FRANCISCO, Cate Cadell and Pei Li in BEIJING, Kane Wu in HONG KONG and Josh Horwitz and Brenda Goh in SHANGHAI; Editing by Susan Thomas, Christopher Cushing and Muralikumar Anantharaman)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kaly SotoWelcome to the weekend. Well deserved after a busy news week! Virginia politics are a mess. El Chapo’s jury is still deliberating. And Jeff Bezos took on The National Enquirer. But today, there are plans to be kept and kitchens to clean. Here are some of the stories you may have missed this busy week.Men in Japan do fewer hours of housework and child care than in any of the world’s richest nations. That keeps women from getting better jobs and holds back the economy.____As the former Texas congressman weighs a run for president, his rebel-in-moderation youth offers revealing parallels to his search for direction now.____Blackface, with its roots in demeaning minstrel-show traditions, has persisted in fraternity houses and private clubs, occasionally exploding into public view.[Also read: “When Is Sorry Not Enough? Virginia Scandals Test the Limits of Forgiveness”]____These women want the right to compete in big-wave contests — and get paid as much as men do.____The National Western Stock Show in Denver bills itself as the premier livestock and rodeo gathering in the country. Every January, thousands of agricultural families come together for the 16-day celebration.____A bipartisan consensus has taken hold: After prison, nonviolent offenders should get a second chance at normal lives. But what about someone whose criminal history — and ambitions — are more extreme?____The durable R&B-turned-movie star built her legend on the pursuit of enlightenment. It’s taken her to hostile territory.____A retired actor found what he thought was an ideal place to live in Greenwich Village in 1955, for $90 a month. He never left.____Some conservationists and travel experts are worried about the environmental impact of a growing number of visitors on the fragile, otherworldly archipelago.____Winsomely captured in poems and song, the birds are yielding new secrets about their astounding beaks and penchant for violence.____Boredom teaches us that life isn’t a parade of amusements. More important, it spawns creativity and self-sufficiency.____Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy William Neuman and J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Ever since Amazon decided to withdraw its plans to build a corporate campus in New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio has been in attack mode.He criticized Amazon for abandoning New York, characterizing its decision as an example of “the 1 percent dictating to everyone else.” He ridiculed the company for not having the patience to work through community opposition, suggesting on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that it showed the maturity of someone who “took their ball and went home.”The comments represented an abrupt shift for the mayor, who had helped entice the company to come to Queens, and had recently met in Albany with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to strategize how they might help push aside the political hurdles that stood in the company’s way.Three days after that meeting, Mr. de Blasio got the phone call from an Amazon executive, informing him of the company’s decision.“It was such a shock to the system,” the mayor said in an interview on Wednesday. “I wanted to believe there was something more to it, that there was more room for dialogue, that there was something they wanted to address, that it wasn’t literally: We’re out and never coming back.”Within minutes of hanging up the telephone with the Amazon executive, Jay Carney, Mr. de Blasio decided to turn against the company; he said that he and his aides “immediately reached a broad and fast consensus that this was outrageous.”For Mr. de Blasio, the aggressive posture toward Amazon, a company that has been criticized by the left for its opposition toward unions and its cooperation with federal law enforcement officials, may be a calculated political risk worth taking.He has suggested that he is considering running for president in 2020, and taking a highly visible stand against a big corporation and its phenomenally wealthy chief executive, Jeff Bezos, could score points with the energized Democratic activists on the left who are likely to vote in primaries.It gives him a platform to discuss corporate behavior and income inequality, one of his core progressive issues. It provides an avenue for Mr. de Blasio to position himself on the campaign trail — he is traveling to Iowa this weekend — as a mayor who stood up to Amazon, even if he once stood alongside them.And it allowed Mr. de Blasio an opening to regain some of the ground he had ceded with his party’s left wing, many of whose leaders in New York, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, opposed the Amazon deal.How well it will work for him remains an open question.“It seems that he’s a little bit torn on who he wants to be,” said Jose Cabrera of the Queens branch of the Democratic Socialists of America, a political group that organized against Amazon, including door-to-door efforts to rally opposition.Mr. Cabrera said the mayor’s office did not reach out to D.S.A. members or other local activist groups that gained experience and contacts during the campaign for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. As for the mayor’s rhetoric now, Mr. Cabrera said it rang hollow. “I don’t think he has much to do at this point,” he added.The mayor was more receptive to concerns raised by prominent union opponents of the deal.The mayor spoke several times with Stuart Appelbaum, the president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, who was one of the more vocal opponents of Amazon coming to Queens. The two held a meeting at Gracie Mansion in late January, and spoke again on Super Bowl Sunday, Mr. Appelbaum recalled.“I think that we were able to inform him of Amazon’s behavior in the workplace, and the mistreatment of its workers all over the world,” Mr. Appelbaum said.“I think he made a mistake in the way the deal was put together, I think he was wrong in believing that Amazon would behave rationally in this process.”The union leader said he believed the mayor “changed over time,” eventually agreeing that the city “needed to find a way to deal with these labor issues.”Mr. de Blasio disputed any notion that the conversations caused him to alter his approach, which he laid out on the day last year that he announced Amazon would be coming to New York City. The city — a union town, the mayor said — would eventually change the corporate behemoth.“When Stuart suggests evolution it misses the fact that I think I felt all that at the beginning,” Mr. de Blasio said on Wednesday.Mr. de Blasio has said repeatedly in recent weeks that he is not ruling out a run for the White House, and his pivot on Amazon comes at a convenient time for someone who might be contemplating facing Democratic primary voters who lean leftward.“I knew there would be some of my fellow progressives who for other reasons might not have liked the deal,” the mayor added. “But the progressive movement isn’t a monolith, certainly the Democratic Party isn’t anything like a monolith. It never surprises me when there’s differences among my friends. But I felt very comfortable that the net gain for working people was really clear, was unusually clear.”“If I had wanted to run away I could have obviously done that,” he added, insisting he was never less than gung-ho in his support for the deal. “I believed it was a good deal, I spoke to it many many times.”The mayor said that his switch from Amazon-booster to Amazon-basher was actually part of a consistent stance toward big business. “It’s important to understand that I’m very comfortable in my own skin,” Mr. de Blasio said. “I have been a self-identified progressive since high school and I know that in all dealing with corporate America you have to take a position of demanding guarantees for working people.”The Amazon deal and Mr. de Blasio’s possible presidential aspirations came up at a news conference earlier this week, which also happened to fall on the day that Bernie Sanders announced that he would again seek the Democratic nomination for president.Although Mr. de Blasio did not endorse Mr. Sanders for the Democratic nomination in 2016, he was and remains a fervent admirer. Yet when he was asked if he would campaign for Mr. Sanders this time around, his answer hinted at his own presidential intentions.“I’ve been really, really clear; I’ll be clear again,” Mr. de Blasio said. “I do not rule out any particular path for myself.”Indeed, the mayor will appear this weekend in Sioux City, Iowa, on Saturday and on Sunday in Des Moines, where he is speaking to the Asian & Latino Coalition — a day after Senator Kamala Harris of California is slated to appear before the group.Prakash Kopparapu, the chairman of the coalition, said the mayor of New York City had “rock star” status, even if Mr. de Blasio was not yet “part of the conversation” for 2020.“He is not part of the talk, at least not in the circles that I’m in,” he added.Through the whole process of dealing with Amazon officials, the mayor did not meet, or even speak to, the Amazon chief executive. Mr. Bezos did not visit the site in Long Island City, or come to New York at any point as part of the process.Yet less than a week after Amazon pulled out, Mr. Bezos visited New York on Wednesday to speak before an aviation club in Midtown Manhattan. He spoke for about an hour, mostly about space travel, took no questions from the audience, and, according to two people who attended the closed-door event, never once mentioned Amazon’s failed attempt to build a campus in New York.Then he left, ignoring questions outside from reporters.Ana Fota contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Amazon may dominate online shopping in the United States, but in the world’s second-largest economy it is all but calling it quits.Amazon said late Wednesday that it was closing its domestic e-commerce business in China. The company had long struggled to gain traction in China despite operating there for more than a decade.Instead of buying products sold locally by Amazon and its marketplace of Chinese suppliers, shoppers at Amazon.cn will be able to buy only some products imported by Amazon’s sites in the United States, Britain, Germany or Japan.Amazon’s Chinese sales are small enough that the company does not break them out in its financial reports. It sells less in the country than in Japan, the smallest market that it does report, which had $13.8 billion in sales last year, about 6 percent of Amazon’s business globally.“Over the past few years, we have been evolving our China online retail business to increasingly emphasize cross-border sales, and in return we’ve seen very strong response from Chinese customers,” Amazon said in a statement. “Their demand for high-quality, authentic goods from around the world continues to grow rapidly, and given our global presence, Amazon is well-positioned to serve them.”Amazon bought its way into China in 2004 with a takeover of Joyo.com, a popular online seller of books, for about $75 million. “We’re happy to be part of one of the world’s most dynamic markets,” Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, said in a statement at the time.It rebranded the Joyo business in 2011 to Amazon China.Amazon faced fewer restrictions when it entered China than foreign internet companies face today. But the company struggled to compete with a cast of cutthroat local competitors. It also didn’t adapt well to the unique Chinese market, which is price-sensitive for many goods and favors near instant delivery and a focus on authentic foreign products.Amazon initially controlled much of its own inventory and built its own delivery infrastructure. By contrast, Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce retailer, chose to focus on being a platform that hosted an array of smaller vendors and made use of local delivery companies to help it offer lower prices. Over time the approach helped Alibaba eclipse Amazon.Other local players that more closely followed Amazon’s model, like JD.com, invested more heavily in logistics and outcompeted the American company, which some argued was distracted by its presence in markets across the world.In recent years, Amazon has focused more on offering cloud services and its Kindle devices instead of its core e-commerce business in China. Those have struggled under the onus of Beijing’s control.“There is no other region that has such a dominant competitor and regulatory environment,” said Simeon Siegel, a retail analyst at Instinet, an equity research firm. “You have to wonder if Amazon gave up on China earlier than this announcement,” he said, given how Amazon barely talks about its Chinese business as opposed to other growing economies like India.Some brands and retailers, like Starbucks or Nike, have found success in China, which has become one of their most important markets. “Nike as a brand may drive more revenue in China than Amazon does,” Mr. Siegel said.Amazon’s chief rival in the United States, Walmart, has been expanding its business in China, particularly through a partnership with JD.com.Walmart and its Sam’s Club unit sell on JD.com’s e-commerce sites, giving the American retailer vast access to Chinese consumers. The two companies have also taken steps to integrate their inventories so that the companies can more quickly deliver products to customers shopping on JD.com.Walmart also operates hundreds of brick-and-mortar stores across China. The company recently opened a “smart supermarket” that can offer home delivery in less than an hour.Chinese consumers will still be able to buy content like books for Kindles at Amazon.cn, and the company said it would continue other businesses in China, including cloud computing and the services it provides a growing number of Chinese brands that sell directly to Amazon consumers in the United States and elsewhere.Paul Mozur and Michael Corkery contributed reporting from New York.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuAmazon has removed the online listings for two books that claim to contain cures for autism, a move that follows recent efforts by several social media sites to limit the availability of anti-vaccination and other pseudoscientific material.The books, “Healing the Symptoms Known as Autism” and “Fight Autism and Win,” which had previously been listed for sale in Amazon’s marketplace, were not available on Wednesday. The company confirmed that the listings had been removed, but declined to discuss why or whether similar books would be taken down in the future.Several such books were still listed on Wednesday. In an article published this week, Wired UK magazine noted that Amazon is crowded with titles promoting unproven treatments for autism that include “sex, yoga, camel milk, electroconvulsive therapy and veganism.”There is no cure for autism spectrum disorder, but there are medications that can help address associated symptoms like high energy levels and depression, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The agency has found that as many as a third of parents with an autistic child have tried treatments that most pediatricians do not recommend, and that up to 10 percent may be using potentially dangerous tactics.The books that were listed on Amazon were both written more than five years ago and have together generated more than 600 customer reviews.“Healing the Symptoms Known as Autism” recommends that autistic children drink and bathe in chlorine dioxide, a compound often referred to as “Miracle Mineral Solution.” In 2010, the Food and Drug Administration  described it as “a potent bleach used for stripping textiles and industrial water treatment” that “can cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and symptoms of severe dehydration.”Representative Adam Schiff, Democrat of California, wrote an open letter this month to Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, chiding the company about the failure of its algorithms to “distinguish quality information from misinformation or misleading information.”“As a result, harmful anti-vaccine messages have been able to thrive and spread,” Mr. Schiff wrote. “Every online platform, including Amazon, must act responsibly and ensure that they do not contribute to this growing public health catastrophe.”In a letter to Mr. Schiff on Monday, Amazon’s vice president of public policy, Brian Huseman, said the company’s guidelines “do not specifically address content about vaccines.” Mr. Huseman said Amazon provided customers “with access to a variety of viewpoints, including books and videos that some customers may find objectionable.”Mr. Huseman also said in the letter that Amazon had conducted a review of anti-vaccination books and “found categorizations that were not consistent with our customers’ expectations.” The company, he said, was “actively working to resolve this.”A “small number” of publishers and authors have bought ads to promote books about vaccination, Mr. Huseman wrote, noting that Amazon prohibited “general advertising related to public policy or advocacy issues such as anti-vaccination messaging.”Several other internet companies have said they were taking steps to limit the reach of pseudoscientific health information.Facebook said last week that it would not take down misinformation about vaccines, but would try to make such material harder to find and would stop accepting advertisements that advanced vaccine hoaxes. Many anti-vaccination activists believe vaccines are linked to autism, even though the idea has been widely debunked.Pinterest recently began blocking posts about vaccines from appearing in its search bar. And YouTube said it was adjusting its algorithms to raise the visibility of authoritative videos about vaccination-related topics.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders are split over Amazon’s change of plan for its HQ2.To the Editor:Re “Amazon Pulls Out of Planned New York City Headquarters” (nytimes.com, Feb. 14):Amazon doesn’t like democracy. When people start asking tough questions, it can’t take the heat.In 2017, Amazon paid $0 in federal income taxes. Jeff Bezos is the richest man on the planet. This is not a company that needs several billion of our tax dollars as a bribe. Amazon projected that it would employ more than 25,000 people in its so-called HQ2. Google plans to expand to some 20,000 employees in New York City without a public subsidy.Opponents of the project were asking questions that Amazon didn’t like answering. Is it wrong to ask this giant company if it planned to fight unionization? Or to ask why the City Council was cut out of the planning process? These are reasonable questions. Amazon was intent on being the master — but New Yorkers have a different idea about the future of our city.Peter HognessBrooklynTo the Editor:It was sensible to give Amazon large tax breaks in exchange for its huge investment. Thousands of quality jobs would have been created, thereby generating fresh tax revenues in perpetuity. And successful investments tend to attract more investments. Conversely, anti-development policies reap what they sow. New York City will lose much more than just Amazon for years to come. A relatively small gaggle of entitled citizens, unions and servile politicians shouldn’t have been able to destroy this precious opportunity. Jeff HermanStockbridge, Mass.To the Editor:“New York Needs Amazon,” by Kenneth Jackson (Op-Ed, Feb. 14), states that New York’s “reputation as a center of economic opportunity” would “sink” if we rejected Amazon.New York City’s reputation lies in its people, architecture, art, food, culture and music. It’s a true city for all, with Queens being the most diverse part, where middle- and working-class people can still afford to live. Amazon would have changed that, for the worse.We need to look to Seattle to see what would have happened here. Many of the well-paying Amazon jobs in its first headquarters went to people who moved there. The rapid influx of high earners caused increased housing costs, higher rents for small businesses and transportation gridlock.Amazon coming into Queens would have set off a chain reaction of displacement throughout the borough. This is exactly the reason we protested Amazon and are happy it is not coming here!Doreen DeignanSunnyside, QueensTo the Editor:It is unfortunate that Kenneth Jackson’s attempt to bring facts, reason and historical context to the debate over Amazon’s planned move to New York City did not affect the outcome. He mentioned the historical losses in jobs and tax revenues from the disappearance of breweries and the decline of manufacturing, to which I would add the longstanding concern over volatility in the city’s financial services sector.For years, New York City officials have struggled with our overreliance on this sector for jobs and taxes, and the critical need to diversify our economy. Amazon’s initial decision to come to the city was a huge diversification opportunity, and we let it slip away. By allowing the debate to be driven by the short-term thinking of vocal oppositionists, we have signaled to Amazon that it is not welcome here. The loss is ours.Thomas SchickBrooklynThe writer is a retired executive vice president at American Express.To the Editor:In explaining why it is canceling plans to build a corporate campus in Queens, Amazon says that “a number of state and local politicians have made it clear that they oppose our presence.”No, they don’t. They oppose giving $3 billion in tax breaks for 25,000 jobs. That’s more than a hundred thousand dollars per job, an amount that’s difficult to justify during a period of very low unemployment.Shaun BreidbartPelham, N.Y.To the Editor:Now that Amazon has decided not to build in Long Island City, there are very different possible reactions: Regret that our local politicians and union leaders were so negative and refused to encourage the bright side of this potential deal, or joy that after one-sided negotiations, this behemoth of a company is taking its business elsewhere.The third possible reaction is sadness that they couldn’t find common ground to encourage a reasonable compromise between Amazon and the Long Island City community that would be its new home.Ultimately, New York City is the real loser.Peter SamtonNew YorkThe writer is an architect.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kirk JohnsonSEATTLE — As cars and pedestrians passed by during the evening rush on Thursday, Paula Harper-Christensen, a retired teacher, smiled and waved her sign with an upside-down Starbucks mermaid. “Don’t spill our chance,” the text said under the logo. Susan Glicksberg’s protest placard was more blunt: “Do Not Run!”Howard Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, has returned to his hometown, Seattle, and it has not been a uniformly warm welcome.Mr. Schultz, 65, has come under fierce criticism from many fellow Democrats for being a possible 2020 spoiler after he disclosed his interest in running as an independent candidate for president. He says he will weigh whether to run over the few next months as he undertakes a national book tour describing his vision for fixing America’s ills.[Check out the Democratic field with our new candidate tracker.]Thursday night was his first major appearance in Seattle since his political announcement. Roughly 40 protesters gathered to greet him before his planned event to promote the book and his possible candidacy. Some, like Mary Hanke, were overtly hostile to Mr. Schultz and his record as a businessman.“He’s just like Trump, and the last thing we need is another spoiled, self-absorbed billionaire,” said Ms. Hanke, 69, a retired tech manager.But many others, like Ms. Harper-Christensen, said they were more concerned about the impact of a Schultz independent candidacy in 2020: that a third-party run could split the vote and help re-elect President Trump, who is far more unpopular in Seattle than Mr. Schultz is.“I don’t even like to say his name,” Ms. Harper-Christensen said, referring to the president.Seattle is where Mr. Schultz made his fortune as a businessman. He organized an investor group to buy in 1987 what was at the time a modest coffee-bean retailer called Starbucks, with all of 17 locations, and building it into a frappaccino behemoth with nearly 30,000 stores around the world.Mr. Schultz left the company as a billionaire last year, and yet remains relatively little known to many Seattle residents, compared to other Seattle business leaders who have become household names — notably Jeff Bezos of Amazon and Bill Gates of Microsoft.But the Starbucks brand, with which many Seattle residents have a complex love/hate relationship, is everywhere you look. The historic nonprofit theater that Mr. Schultz hired out for Thursday evening is only a few blocks from the early 1970s-vintage Starbucks store at Pike Place Market — preserved like a museum, or shrine, and drawing tens of thousands of tourists a year. The corporate headquarters, with its blue-and-green mermaid logo rising from the rooftop, is a few miles to the south.In the riots that gripped the city during a gathering of the World Trade Organization in 1999, the shattered glass windows of Starbucks stores became one of the symbols of destruction by anarchists and other groups that roved the city denouncing corporate power.At least one other billionaire with the means to self-finance a bid for the White House, Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, is considering a run for president — in Mr. Bloomberg’s case, as a Democrat.But it is Mr. Schultz’s possible path as a moderate independent outside the two-party system that has drawn the most attention — and criticism by some Democrats who said they feared that a Schultz candidacy could siphon off more Democratic voters than Republicans.Washington’s governor, Jay Inslee, a Democrat who is also considering a presidential bid, said this week that he feared a Schultz candidacy could help re-elect President Trump.“Anyone who would run as an independent, and clearly split the Democratic vote, and clearly help Donald Trump — that would be a terrible decision,” Mr. Inslee said.But Mr. Schultz, in an interview with The Times and an appearance on “60 Minutes,” said he believed that the two-party system, locked in a war of revenge and spite, was broken, and that Democratic Party leaders had moved too far to the left on some policy issues.“Both parties are consistently not doing what’s necessary on behalf of the American people,” he said.A few people who came to greet Mr. Schultz at his speech said they agreed with him on at least that point. Jeff Jared, 55, a lawyer and self-described libertarian, carried a sign that said, “Run, Howard, Run.”“People are starving for a third party,” Mr. Jared said.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Nicholas ThompsonThis review was updated by the reviewer on Feb. 14 to reflect questions that arose after the review’s publication.MERCHANTS OF TRUTH The Business of News and the Fight for Facts By Jill Abramson 534 pp. Simon & Schuster. $30.In the early spring of 2014, A. G. Sulzberger, then an editor on the metro desk of The New York Times, handed Jill Abramson, the executive editor, a copy of the “innovation report.” Sulzberger and a team of colleagues had been working on the document for months, and they’d produced a vivisection of the paper. The Times had been slow to adapt to the emergence of new digital platforms; it had thumbed its nose at the internet and thus the future. The report was insightful, enlightened and tough. And it drove Abramson over the edge.She was upset because she didn’t think it credited her enough. Not a word of praise was offered for her having helped unite nytimes.com and the main newsroom. Worse, the report also encouraged The Times to loosen the barriers dividing the editorial and business sides. That, to her, was a road to perdition. “For me, it was an epic defeat,” she writes. She had wanted to be the executive editor who protected the newsroom from “crass commercialism”; she had wanted to avoid “metric charts influencing editors to promote stories according to their traffic.”She raged quietly and plotted.In May of that year, she made her move — and completely bungled it. She offered a managing editor position in charge of digital to Janine Gibson, an editor at The Guardian. Abramson then deceived her deputy, Dean Baquet, about the offer; when he found out the truth he was furious. A few days later, the publisher, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., A. G.’s father, fired Abramson. Baquet became executive editor.The episode, in more ways than one, set Abramson on a path that would produce “Merchants of Truth,” her book examining four news organizations trying to sail through the storm of digital transformation: BuzzFeed, Vice, The Washington Post and The Times. It’s partly a memoir and partly a work of investigative reporting. But it’s mostly an audit of an industry that has spent much of the past decade wetting its pants in fear of digital technology and then worrying about whether to go to the dry cleaners. And it’s a damn good read.The book tells the story in 13 chapters, three on each protagonist-company and one on Facebook. And it begins with BuzzFeed and its shrewd leader Jonah Peretti, the industry’s stalwart in figuring out how to profit off the ways modern technology taps into America’s id. The company he creates is a pioneer: at entertainment, at clickbait, at blurring lines between advertising and news, and at persuading other publishers to give him their precious data for almost nothing. He masters Facebook and quickly realizes one of the central lessons for modern media: New social platforms aren’t just distribution platforms for your old stuff — like your website or your newspapers. They are entirely new places, with new rules, for you to create new content.Meanwhile, as Peretti builds up an empire based on lists about basset hounds, he also creates a serious operation, BuzzFeed News, that churns out scoops and serious stories, including the first revelations about the role of fake news during the 2016 election. Peretti starts this money-losing wing, Abramson writes, as a way to create cachet for the money-winning side of his empire. The result is roughly similar to McDonald’s including slices of apples in Happy Meals.Next we turn to Vice, the hard-partying empire of cool that in 2017 turned its founder Shane Smith into a billionaire. Abramson is impressed by some of the journalism and perhaps even by some of Smith’s famous bluster. But she has a keen eye for the central irony at the core of Vice. The company created branded content for giant advertisers — and killed stories that criticized them — at the same time that it cultivated an image of rebellion. It was giving the Man the finger while simultaneously massaging his back.Abramson also has her eyes trained on what she sees as the company’s sexism: At one point, she quotes The Baffler’s description of Vice as a “vertically integrated rape joke.” And she pushes forward with the tale of an executive who cheats on his wife with one of his underlings, and then annoys that girlfriend by kissing another producer, who, the story goes, has to fend him off with an umbrella.Abramson’s critique of Vice is cutting. But Vice also turned the knives around. After the book came out, a Vice News correspondent noted multiple places where the author had included material nearly identical to what had previously appeared in other publications. Abramson apologized, and noted that she had pointed to the original sources in her endnotes, just not in the proper place. She also said that some passages should have been marked as direct quotes. Abramson’s book tour was suddenly consumed by conversations parsing the definition of plagiarism.The third setting is The Washington Post, where our story begins with the company’s earnest patriarch, Donald E. Graham — clumsily betting on local news even as the revenue attached to it dries up, and cannily betting on Mark Zuckerberg, who reneges on a handshake deal that would have given Graham a stake in Zuckerberg’s fledgling company. Abramson describes Zuckerberg lying on a bathroom floor and crying with guilt after the betrayal. In retrospect, it’s hard not to think that the young C.E.O. would have been better off keeping his word and choosing the sensible, moral journalist over the venture capitalists.Eventually Graham sells to one of the few men richer than Zuckerberg, and the paper begins its new life. An engraving in the newsroom appears after Jeff Bezos takes over with the mantra “What’s dangerous is not to evolve.” The message is exactly right for the industry, and it works. Bezos focuses on the product and engineering departments at The Post, making the pages fast to load and the stories easy to read across platforms. Editorially, it essentially takes the inverse model of BuzzFeed, serving a side of clickbait with a main course of serious journalism. Most everything works, and soon after Bezos arrives The Post has even more readers than The Times.Last of course is The New York Times, a story that benefits immensely from Abramson’s inside dirt, her genuine admissions about the errors she made and the obvious delight she takes in settling scores. In fact, nothing seems to please her as much as the moments when she can stick her knives into Dean Baquet. At one point, she tells the tale of a reporter named Eric Lichtblau. He was upset that a piece of his on Trump and Russia had been delayed, and then watered down. After The Times’s public editor weighed in, Baquet emailed Lichtblau: “I hope your colleagues rip you a new asshole.” Abramson then publishes another internal email from Baquet that she’s been given, this one complaining about Times reporters who had disclosed confidential conversations about the Lichtblau article. “I guess I’m disappointed that this ended up in print,” Baquet writes — a message that Abramson herself has now immortalized in print. It’s hard to know who has the moral high ground in this fight. But I do look forward to the Abramson sections whenever Baquet writes his own memoirs.As the book ends, the digital pioneers are in tatters. Vice has lost its swagger amid its sexual harassment scandals and its readership is in decline. Facebook has abandoned BuzzFeed, and much of the rest of the publishing industry. Peretti, who has always seemed to know where the media are headed before the rest of the media, seems temporarily as shellshocked as his peers.Meanwhile, the winners appear to be The Post and, even more so, The New York Times. Or as Abramson writes in the conclusion, “Of all the executives who had faced the ferocious waters of the digital revolution, Arthur Sulzberger Jr. had come closest to crossing to safety.” And the reason for his success comes from developing new products that depended on both the reporting and business sides, and following the metric charts that told the paper what stories to run.The book ends in a double irony. It’s titled “Merchants of Truth,” but much of the discussion after publication has been about whether the author’s sourcing was truthful. Secondly, Abramson was, indirectly at least, fired because of her resistance to the “innovation report.” And now she’s produced a marvelous book about exactly how prescient the darn thing was.Nicholas Thompson is the editor in chief of Wired magazine.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate Kelly and Ben HubbardThere was much to celebrate last spring when Ariel Emanuel, the chief executive of the talent agency Endeavor, helped throw a splashy Hollywood party for Saudi Arabia’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.The soiree, with guests including the Disney chief executive Robert A. Iger, the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and the former N.B.A. star Kobe Bryant, took place as Saudi Arabia’s government investment fund was completing an agreement to invest $400 million in Mr. Emanuel’s firm. The deal was meant to finance Endeavor’s growth, while diversifying Saudi Arabia’s economy via the talent agency’s work in sports, events, modeling and television and film production.Less than a year after the star-studded party, Endeavor and Saudi Arabia have gone through a messy breakup, set in motion by the murder last October of the Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.In recent weeks, Mr. Emanuel’s firm returned the $400 million investment, effectively severing Endeavor’s relationship with Saudi leaders, according to two people with knowledge of the transaction.It is one of the few instances of a major company halting business with the wealthy kingdom to protest its agents’ assassination of a journalist.A spokesman for Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund, or PIF, which made the investment in Endeavor, did not respond to repeated requests for comment. Neither did Mr. Emanuel.Prince Mohammed has worked to turn the fund into a global investment giant whose profits can reduce the kingdom’s dependency on oil. On a high-profile tour of the United States last spring, the prince met with politicians, business leaders and celebrities. Many hailed him as a valuable business partner and a potentially transformative figure in the Middle East.On the prince’s American trip, the fund signed deals with the movie-theater company AMC and the amusement-park operator Six Flags to expand into Saudi Arabia. And it completed the investment with Endeavor, an alliance that Prince Mohammed hoped would lift the kingdom’s nascent entertainment sector.Then Mr. Khashoggi’s murder in October led to an international outcry.Richard Branson, founder of the British media and technology conglomerate Virgin Group, suspended talks with the Saudi fund over potential investments in his space-travel businesses. Executives from the private-equity firm Blackstone Group, the ride-sharing service Uber and Goldman Sachs canceled plans to attend a major investment conference in Riyadh, the Saudi capital.Mr. Emanuel joined the chorus. At an industry event in Cannes, France, on Oct. 15, he called the Khashoggi disappearance, about which many details had not yet emerged, “very, very concerning, really concerning. It’s upsetting.”Privately, Mr. Emanuel informed officials with the Saudi fund that he intended to return the $400 million that it had invested. Worried about the Saudi reaction, he began traveling at times with bodyguards, according to a person briefed on the matter.Mr. Emanuel canvassed other investors, including some who already had put money into Endeavor, to help fill the void that would be left when the firm returned the Saudi money, according to the two people familiar with the talks, including one who is an Endeavor investor.The process wrapped up in the past few weeks, with Endeavor investors kicking in money and the company repaying Saudi Arabia.Endeavor’s clean break with the kingdom has made it an outlier in the business community.Despite the American sanctions against 17 Saudis said to have been involved with Mr. Khashoggi’s killing, on top of the public outcry, most of the kingdom’s overseas partnerships have remained intact. Blackstone is using billions of dollars of Saudi money to invest in United States infrastructure projects. The asset manager BlackRock has said it will continue to manage Saudi funds. And Uber and other companies that accepted money from the Saudi government have not indicated any plans to return it.“People still want sovereign wealth fund money,” said Michael Maduell, president of the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute, which provides research on government investment funds.Greg Fairchild, who teaches business ethics at the University of Virginia’s Darden School, said there was a strong argument for corporate leaders to follow Mr. Emanuel’s lead.While it might hurt in the short term, he said, “you can look in the mirror and say, ‘We’re just not involved in that.’”Ben Hubbard reported from Beirut, Lebanon.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON — Two years ago, some of America’s largest corporations were tearing up their business plans to accommodate President Trump, fearful that he could send their shareholders and customers fleeing with a tweet. Now they have a new strategy: Ignore him.This week, General Motors became the latest recipient of a barrage of tweets from Mr. Trump, who is angry about the company’s closing of a plant in Lordstown, Ohio. The president told the company to reopen the plant or sell it “fast” to someone who would. He suggested that G.M. shutter a factory in China or Mexico instead.“What’s going on with General Motors?” Mr. Trump said on Wednesday during a speech at a tank factory in Lima, Ohio. “Get that plant opened or sell it to somebody and they’ll open it.”G.M. has not budged. After Mr. Trump’s tweets over the weekend, the company issued a terse statement noting that it was relocating workers and that it would be discussing plant closings with the United Auto Workers union. It made no mention of the demands of Mr. Trump. In the past, G.M. has blamed the president’s trade war, including tariffs on steel and aluminum, for raising the company’s costs.“Companies are balancing political pressure against their own return requirements,” said Philippe Houchois, an automobile sector analyst at Jefferies. “I don’t think they are being swayed.”When Mr. Trump was running for president, he promised to personally stop American companies from shutting down factories and moving plants abroad, warning that he would punish them with public backlash and higher taxes. Many companies scrambled to respond to his Twitter attacks, announcing jobs and investments in the United States — several of which never materialized.But despite Mr. Trump’s efforts to compel companies to build and hire, they appear to be increasingly prioritizing their balance sheets over political backlash.“I don’t think there’s as much fear,” said Gene Grabowski, who specializes in crisis communications for the public relations firm Kglobal. “At first it was a shock to the system, but now we’ve all adjusted. We take it in stride, and I think that’s what the business community is doing.”Early on, Mr. Trump’s ability to direct outrage at companies appeared to work. Before Mr. Trump even took office, Carrier agreed to keep 1,000 jobs in Indiana that it had been planning to move to Mexico. In 2017, Ford canceled plans to build a new factory in Mexico and increased its investment in a self-driving car plant in Michigan. Last year, Pfizer delayed drug price increases at Mr. Trump’s request after he threatened, vaguely, to take action against the industry’s pricing policies.More recently that influence has waned. The president’s scattershot attention span has diminished his power to persuade the business world to bend to his will, corporate communications experts say, as once fearsome tweet storms have devolved into ephemeral annoyances.At the start of the Trump administration, big companies hired firms like Mr. Grabowski’s to develop response strategies in the event they were targeted by Mr. Trump. His team would scour social media to understand the trajectory of Mr. Trump’s tweets and how much damage they could do to a brand. Ultimately the public relations problems usually proved to be short lived.“In the beginning, his tweets would actually hurt stock prices and companies were going into tailspins,” said Eric Dezenhall, a Washington-based expert in corporate damage control. “There is a clinical difference between what was happening in the beginning and what is happening now.”He added: “What’s happening now is there is tantrum congestion.”That congestion has been on display this week, as Mr. Trump assailed Facebook, Google, Twitter and “Saturday Night Live,” saying they are biased against Republicans. Those outbursts on Twitter were interspersed with attacks on political opponents, the Russia investigation and Senator John McCain, who died last year.While a tweet from Mr. Trump used to sink a company’s stock price, analysts say that these days a missive from the president’s Twitter feed merely injects a bit of noise into the market. Musings from Mr. Trump about the prospect of a trade deal with China or the Federal Reserve continue to rattle investors.Responding with restraint has been something of a reorientation for the public relations industry. The traditional playbook often entails responding directly, quickly and forcefully to bad publicity. However, when it comes to Mr. Trump, experts say an understated response that does not further agitate the president tends to be more effective.Mr. Trump’s power over companies started to show signs of slipping last year. After Harley-Davidson announced plans to move some of its production overseas in response to Mr. Trump’s trade war, the president repeatedly blasted the company as disloyal and urged his supporters — many of whom ride motorcycles — to consider a boycott. Harley-Davidson executives acknowledged the president’s disappointment, but pressed ahead with their plans.Another frequent target, Amazon and its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has largely met his criticism with silence. In 2018, the president accused Amazon of pulling a “scam” on the United States Postal Service and convened a task force to come up with ways to overhaul the Postal Service business model that would allow it to charge higher rates.The task force’s report, which was released nearly eight months after the complaints, found that commercial package delivery for Amazon and other e-commerce retailers was actually profitable for the Postal Service and was not costing the United States “massive amounts of money,” as Mr. Trump had suggested in his tweets. Since then, the president has focused his attention on Mr. Bezos’ marital problems.In other cases, delay has been the path of least resistance.Pfizer agreed last summer to put off planned price increases after its chief executive, Ian Read, had an “extensive” call with Mr. Trump, who had said on Twitter that drug companies are taking advantage of the poor. In January, however, Pfizer moved forward with price increases on 41 drugs. Mr. Trump lamented on Twitter that month that drug companies were not living up to their commitments on pricing, but has not taken any action against the industry.Mr. Trump’s deal with Carrier has also been a bit less than advertised. While United Technologies, its parent company, agreed to maintain its Indianapolis factory in 2016, it still cut more than 500 manufacturing jobs in 2017 and 2018. Many of those were shifted to Mexico. So far, Mr. Trump has been mum.And Ford won plaudits from Mr. Trump for investing in Michigan, but after the spotlight moved on, it had second thoughts about abandoning its Mexico investment. Instead of canceling plans to set up shop south of the border, the company said that it would assemble electric cars there, in addition to its Michigan investment.For some companies, living up to the promises made to Mr. Trump has gotten complicated. Foxconn, the Taiwanese consumer electronics giant, won praise from the president when it announced that it would build a $10 billion television screen production plant in Wisconsin.In January, Foxconn appeared to hedge on that commitment, suggesting that it was too expensive to build the screens in the United States and that the plant would be less focused on manufacturing than it had initially suggested. After Mr. Trump had a conversation with the chairman of Foxconn last month, the company said that it was moving forward with its plans for the factory, but that only a quarter of the 13,000 people it planned to staff it would be focused on manufacturing.Despite Mr. Trump’s vast media presence and his popularity among Republicans, he has not demonstrated the ability to do lasting damage to a corporate brand that crosses him.Mr. Houchois, the Jefferies analyst, said he was not surprised that G.M. was sticking to its plan despite Mr. Trump’s displeasure. Broader economic forces, such as lower gas prices and falling demand for small cars, compelled the company to abandon the Lordstown plant. And Mr. Trump’s metals tariffs, combined with the possibility of more levies on automobiles, have been a drag on the industry and made car companies less inclined to do the president any favors.“The administration, to some extent, has made their life more difficult,” Mr. Houchois said. “They felt wronged by some decisions, on tariffs for example, so they are less likely to bow to pressure if they don’t think there is a business case.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]This week, hundreds of readers shared their reactions to the unfolding accusations against Joe Biden by women who said he had kissed or touched them in ways that made them uncomfortable.Many readers defended the former vice president as a product of a different time and questioned if the #MeToo movement had gone too far. Others insisted that making a woman feel uncomfortable has always been wrong.Since Lucy Flores, a former Nevada state assemblywoman, made public her accusations against Mr. Biden last Friday, multiple women have come forward, telling The Times, The Washington Post and others that he made them feel uncomfortable, bringing the total to seven as of Thursday afternoon. Mr. Biden released a video on Wednesday vowing to “be more mindful and respectful of people’s personal space,” though he stopped short of apologizing.Here is a selection of our readers’ responses, which came from emails sent by On Politics readers, as well as comments across our site. They have been lightly edited for clarity.Many of you defended Mr. Biden, saying he was from an older generation when social mores around physical contact were different.I am 68, a bit younger than Joe Biden. But I am from a big Irish family and we are always kissing and hugging people. It was an expression of welcome and warmth. Now I understand in this MeToo movement that there are those who are uncomfortable with such intimate physical expressions. So now that Joe has been called out on it, it is up to him to show his changed behavior if indeed he runs for president, which I hope he does. — Sally Ziegenfuss, PennsylvaniaI’m a 70-year-old woman who has always thought that male attention that might involve non-intimate touching was something to be pleased about, even proud of. This is definitely a generational issue and younger women need to have perspective and understand that what was very acceptable in the past, even a couple of years ago, should not and cannot be judged by today’s standards. — Ellen Goodman, MassachusettsBack in the ‘60s this issue didn’t exist. It was a different time. When will we stop looking back over our collective shoulders, and move forward? — Whitney Devlin, 74, New York But many others said Mr. Biden’s age was no excuse for his actions.I am in my 60s. Regardless of age or habitat, Joe Biden’s touchy feely actions with women (and men, allegedly) are disgusting and inappropriate. I don’t believe they arise out of innocent affection, though he may have himself convinced. They arise out of unconscious male privilege and are demeaning and distressing to those on the receiving end. — Joan Weis, CaliforniaMen of his generation assumed that the “affection“ being given would be welcomed and appreciated, particularly since it was being given by a man in power. The problem has been that nobody bothered to ask the women or girls.  — Lori Abbott Moreland, Sacramento, Calif.This is not a generational misunderstanding. Biden’s licentious behavior (let’s call it what it is) was never the norm and not what most women wanted or expected. — Dwight Dekeyser, 63, Cherry Hill, N.J.Joe Biden is facing a moment of “white man privilege.” Just because HE didn’t think that gently rubbing shoulders and kissing the back of her head wasn’t inappropriate doesn’t mean this incident can be dismissed as paternal or innocent. It is the woman’s feelings about the kiss/touch that matter.He lives in a different era and is no longer relevant to most generations. He needs to step aside. — Sandra Mathews, 51, Madison, N.J.Some readers said they worried the #MeToo movement risked going off course.Is this where we’re heading, to ban “jokes, hugs and kisses” from the public sphere? Early on we baby boomers rejected the stiff formalities of an earlier generation for an easy physicality, an appreciative give-and-take across gender lines that graced daily life with moments of lightness and warmth. Do we really want to push the Joe Bidens and Al Frankens from our lives? Maybe it’s generational, but I fear we’re losing something I’ve long cherished. #MeTooMuch. — Millie Olson, CaliforniaAs a college student warned constantly about the dangers of life on campus, I worry that the legacy of the MeToo movement will not be empowerment for women, but a generation of women terrified of interaction with males, who see any physical intimacy as a threat.When men kiss me on the head or squeeze my shoulders, it does make me uncomfortable. But does it make me uncomfortable because it is creepy or because I have been told I should find it creepy? I hope the pendulum will soon swing back to a more reasonable and thoughtful, less knee-jerk political and cultural climate. — Meg Edwards, OhioThis story personifies exactly what is wrong with the #MeToo movement. It started off as a positive force, bringing to light predatory behavior, and now we’ve gotten to the point where a squeeze or a nuzzle is horrific.This is exactly why the Democrats (who I am one of) will lose the 2020 election. We are eating our own, and to what end? — Monica Evenson, 47, Los Angeles Special thanks to Lela Moore from The Times’s Reader Center for help with today’s newsletter. To add your own response, visit our story in the Reader Center here.____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________This week, some 2020 candidates have been announcing their first-quarter fund-raising totals. Here are the ones we’ve seen so far:• Bernie Sanders: $18.2 million, 525,000 donors• Kamala Harris: $12 million, 138,000 donors• Beto O’Rourke: $9.4 million, 218,000 donors• Pete Buttigieg: $7 million, 158,550 donors• Andrew Yang: $1.7 million, 80,000 donorsWhat do these numbers tell us?With early polls largely measuring name recognition, these self-reported numbers give us the firmest comparison of strength in a crowded field. More donors, theoretically, means more support.For lesser-known candidates, the number of donors tells us whether they’re likely to qualify for the June debate — a critical opportunity to speak to a larger audience.What don’t these numbers tell us?These are the totals released by the campaigns, so they’re going to present the rosiest possible picture. The full filings will be officially released by the Federal Election Commission on April 15. (Tax day comes for everyone, it seems.)This isn’t a perfect comparison because the candidates entered the race at different times over the past three months. Candidates tend to get a big boost of donations when they first enter a race. Whether they can sustain that momentum is an open — and critical — question.How do these early numbers compare to past years?Pretty dismally, actually. Check out this chart by the Center for Responsive Politics, which compares these numbers to the first quarter fund-raising in 2008, the last time both parties faced such an open race.Barack Obama’s haul of $25.7 million, which neared Hillary Clinton’s $26.1 million total, was seen as a significant victory for the then-Illinois senator. The fact that today’s candidates aren’t raising that kind of dough indicates that the race remains wide open.____________________• In China, high tech surveillance, neighborhood watchers and a constant police presence have turned an entire city into a prison.• The details of the most expensive divorce in history are out: MacKenzie Bezos will get 25 percent of the Amazon stock she owned with her husband (and the richest person in the world), Jeff Bezos. Her share is worth about $36 billion.• Inspired by the Joe Biden news, a Times science reporter looked at decades of scientific and psychological research on why intrusions of personal space make us so uncomfortable.____________________The president tweeted a meme today. (No matter how many times we write that sentence, it never sounds any less weird.) This one featured a 15-second animated video mocking Joe Biden._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Uber published the prospectus yesterday for its long-awaited I.P.O., revealing the full scale of its ride-hailing empire — and potential warning signs for what is expected to be the biggest market debut in years.The main revelations:• $1.8 billion in losses last year, excluding gains from selling parts of its businesses in Southeast Asia and Russia.• $11.3 billion in overall revenue.• 91 million monthly users, including services like food delivery and shared scooter and bike rentals.• Its biggest shareholders include SoftBank of Japan and its co-founder and former C.E.O., Travis Kalanick.Growth is slowing. In 2018, revenue rose 42 percent from a year earlier. It had doubled the year before. And revenue from ride-hailing, its biggest business,  was roughly flat for the last six months of 2018. Growth in monthly users also appears to be slowing.That could be a concern for investors who had hoped Uber would maintain a meteoric growth rate. A potential $100 billion valuation may be lower than expectations, but Lex points out that it’s still a rich number.More: How Uber stacks up against Lyft. What Uber’s metrics like “core platform contribution margin” actually mean. And Uber executives stand to make huge bonuses from a big I.P.O. — its drivers, not so much.Chevron said this morning that it planned to acquire Anadarko, the oil and gas producer, in what would be one of the biggest deals in the industry in years.• Under the terms of the deal, Chevron would pay $65 a share in stock and cash. That is 39 percent above where Anadarko’s stock closed yesterday.• Including Anadarko’s debt, the transaction is valued at $50 billion.• Anadarko would give Chevron a huge presence in the Permian Basin in West Texas, one of the most valuable oil-producing areas in the U.S. It would also strengthen Chevron’s liquid natural gas reserves.If completed, the deal would be Chevron’s biggest since its $36 billion takeover of Texaco, which closed in 2001.The deal comes as oil prices have risen over the past six weeks after a reduction in supply by OPEC members. Futures for West Texas Intermediate crude reached $64.19 per barrel this morning, up 61 cents from their last closing price, according to Reuters.In Amazon’s annual letter to its shareholders, Jeff Bezos shared insights about the financial performance of his e-commerce behemoth.“Third-party sellers are kicking our first-party butt. Badly,” Mr. Bezos wrote. Third-party sales on Amazon increased to $160 billion in 2018 from $100 million in 1999 — a compound annual growth rate of 52 percent. Amazon’s first-party sales rose to $117 billion from $1.6 billion in the same period, a growth rate of 25 percent.Growth in Amazon’s total merchandise sales is slowing, according to calculations by Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion. She writes that the company sold $300 billion worth of merchandise in 2018, up 19 percent from the previous year. But annual increases for that metric were 24 percent for 2017 and 27 percent for 2016.“It’s unfair to expect Amazon to grow like a start-up forever. But it’s not insignificant that this slowdown has come even as Amazon has attempted to flex more muscle in newer categories,” Ms. Ovide writes. “It doesn’t seem like a coincidence that this comes as its legacy retail competitors finally seem to have awakened and adapted to the e-commerce era.”More: Mr. Bezos also dared retail rivals to raise their minimum wages. A Walmart executive shot back by asking Amazon to pay taxes.Four Republican senators said that they would not back Mr. Cain should President Trump nominate him as a Fed governor. That’s probably enough opposition to stop him from joining the central bank.“If I had to vote today, I would vote no,” Senator Kevin Cramer of North Dakota said yesterday, joining Mitt Romney of Utah, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Cory Gardner of Colorado in opposing Mr. Cain. They appear to have concerns about his qualifications and partisanship.Because Republicans hold only 53 Senate seats, a confirmation would require support from Democrats. That seems unlikely, given Mr. Cain’s frequent attacks on opposition lawmakers.It’s unclear whether Mr. Trump’s other pick for the Fed, the economics commentator Stephen Moore, will fare better. Mr. Moore has been embarrassed by revelations of tax problems, but Jim Tankersley of the NYT reports that he may win wider support from Senate Republicans.Mr. Trump’s efforts to politicize the Fed continue to outrage commentators. The Economist is worried that “the Fed will become a political weapon, and that America will move closer to becoming a nation where the welfare of the ruling party trumps that of the country as a whole.”As part of trade negotiations with America, China has offered new concessions on access in the cloud-computing sector for U.S. tech companies, the WSJ reports.• China is “proposing to issue more licenses that businesses need to operate data centers and to lift the 50 percent equity cap that limits ownership for certain foreign cloud-service providers,” according to unidentified sources.• “Amazon, Microsoft, Apple and others have invested millions of dollars or more to provide cloud services in China, but are hampered by regulations. Better access would potentially allow them to enlarge their presence.”• “Questions still remain over the details of the latest Chinese proposal, the people said, such as how quickly the equity caps would be removed, and whether the removal would be confined to certain geographical areas, such as a free-trade zone.”Both Washington and Beijing are offering a final round of concessions, hoping they will lead to an agreement. President Trump said last week that he expected to reach a deal within the next four weeks.The owner of The National Enquirer may have found a potential buyer: Ron Burkle, the supermarket mogul, the NYT reports.Mr. Burkle is known for buying distressed companies, having made his fortune through buying and merging supermarket chains like Ralphs and Jurgensen’s. He’s also known for hobnobbing with celebrities like Leonardo DiCaprio and Madonna.He’s also a big donor to the Democratic Party, and was close to President Bill Clinton. That would make his owning The Enquirer, the tabloid favored by Mr. Trump, unusual. (He is also friends with Mr. Trump.)But leaks of the Enquirer talks may scuttle a deal. After the NYT reported on the discussions, a spokesman for Mr. Burkle’s private equity firm said that the investor wasn’t in talks to buy the publication. The NYT reports that Mr. Burkle’s team felt “used” by American Media Inc., the tabloid’s current owner.The WikiLeaks founder was arrested yesterday in London to face a charge in the U.S. of conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network in 2010, the NYT reports.• “The Ecuadorean government suspended the citizenship it had granted Mr. Assange and evicted him on Thursday, clearing the way for his arrest.”• “At a court hearing, a judge swiftly found him guilty of jumping bail, and he was detained partly in connection with an American extradition warrant.”• “Mr. Assange indicated that he would fight extradition, and legal experts said that process could take years. He is likely to argue that the case is politically motivated.”The events brought to a head issues about press freedom. Mr. Assange’s work with WikiLeaks — obtaining and publishing information that officials would prefer be kept secret — are hard to legally distinguish from journalism. Some fear that journalists could be treated in a similar way.Mr. Assange was indicted on a charge of hacking, not publishing secrets. But people who are worried about press freedom shouldn’t necessarily rest easy, Charlie Savage of the NYT writes.More: President Trump once claimed to “love WikiLeaks.” Yesterday, he said: “I know nothing about WikiLeaks. It’s not my thing.”The dust has settled on the agreement to delay Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. for at least six months. But reactions to the situation have been mixed.Business are unhappy. For many larger companies, Brexit has already happened. But “businesses of all sizes are still pleading for Parliament to give them clarity before the economy slows,” Amie Tsang of the NYT writes.Economists are pleased. The I.M.F.’s managing director, Christine Lagarde, said that the new Brexit date meant that Britain would avoid — for now — the “terrible outcome” of a no-deal departure. The Bank of England governor, Mark Carney, said the delay would make a no-deal exit less disruptive.And Prime Minister Theresa May is pushing on. She has “renewed her effort to push through her Brexit deal with the aid of the opposition Labour Party, in a desperate bid to avoid holding European parliamentary elections in a month’s time,” according to the FT.Bob Iger said yesterday that he would retire as Walt Disney’s C.E.O. in 2021.Jamie Forese, the head of Citigroup’s investment bank and a potential successor to Mike Corbat as C.E.O., is stepping down.Google’s chief diversity officer, Danielle Brown, is leaving to become the human resources chief at Gusto.Maryanne Trump Barry, a federal appellate judge in Philadelphia and the sister of President Trump, has retired amid a civil misconduct investigation.Blackstone has appointed Kelly Ayotte, a former Republican senator for New Hampshire, to its board.Deals• J. Crew may spin off its popular Madewell brand to raise much-needed capital. (NYT)• Jay Alix, the corporate restructuring veteran, is leading a fight against what he says is McKinsey & Company’s control of the U.S. bankruptcy system. (NYT)• A bidder for Disney’s sports networks has accused Charter Communications of trying to subvert the auction process. (WSJ)• Goldman Sachs is trying to revive its once-dominant trading division by offering clients technology and new services like cash management. (FT)Politics and policy• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a 7 percent tax on corporate profits above $100 million, which would raise an estimated $1 trillion over the next decade. (Bloomberg)• The Senate confirmed David Bernhardt, a former oil lobbyist, as the interior department secretary, despite Democratic lawmakers’ concerns. (NYT)• A third of economists think even a small increase in the federal minimum wage would lead to job losses, according to a survey. (WSJ)• A grand jury indicted Gregory Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration, over his work for Ukraine. (NYT)Boeing• Families planning to sue Boeing in the U.S. over fatal crashes in Indonesia and Ethiopia must first prove their lawsuits belong in America. (WSJ)• The C.E.O., Dennis Muilenberg, said that fixes planned for the 737 Max jets would make them “even safer.” (WSJ)• Before the Ethiopian Airlines crash, Boeing had said that the 737 Max 8 was “not suitable” for some airports. (Bloomberg)Tech• Disney introduced its streaming service, Disney Plus. Featuring original content from Marvel and all 30 seasons of “The Simpsons,” it will cost $7 a month, undercutting Netflix. (NYT)• SpaceX launched the Falcon Heavy — the most powerful rocket in operation — for the second time. It also successfully landed all three of its boosters for the first time. Related: What’s next for the space race. (NYT, WSJ)• Tesla reshuffled the vehicle lineup on its online ordering system, making it harder to buy its cheapest vehicle. Also: Tesla and Panasonic have tempered expansion plans for their huge battery factory. (Bloomberg)• What’s Big Tech’s relationship with the climate? It’s complicated. (Axios)Best of the rest• Economists said that they see the Fed holding rates steady at least through 2021, according to a survey. (WSJ)• The new World Bank president, David Malpass, says there is too much debt in the world. (CNBC)• A defense lawyer for Carlos Ghosn says that detention is worsening his kidney condition. (WSJ)• Sales reps for Purdue Pharma visited New York State doctors a half-million times between 2006 and 2017 to promote OxyContin, according to newly filed court documents. (NYT)• Michael Avenatti, already facing fraud and extortion charges, has also been accused of stealing from clients and of lying repeatedly about his income. (NYT)• “Game of Thrones” returns on Sunday. Here’s how it changed television. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Vivian Wang and Jesse McKinley[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — Amazon has a market value of hundreds of billions of dollars, the support of New York’s governor and mayor and an army of lobbyists devoted to its plan to build a second headquarters in New York City.But that plan could be derailed by one man: Senator Michael Gianaris, the deputy majority leader of New York’s State Senate, who represents the Queens district where Amazon wants to build its new home.Through a confluence of timing, electoral successes and old-fashioned politics, Mr. Gianaris, one of the deal’s most outspoken opponents, is uniquely positioned to stand in its way: On Monday, the new Senate majority leader, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, nominated him to serve on the Public Authorities Control Board, a little-known state board that must approve the Amazon plan.Any of the three voting members of the board has the power to veto the plan, cementing Mr. Gianaris’s position at the center of the furor over Amazon.The nomination also made evident the dramatic recent change in his political fortunes: Mr. Gianaris, once a longtime but largely powerless antagonist to some of Albany’s most influential players, has become one of the Capitol’s central figures.Mr. Gianaris waved off the idea that the Amazon controversy had helped his political profile. “I would prefer if this never landed on my desk,” he said in an interview on Tuesday.He insisted that his opposition was grounded in a commitment to fighting economic inequality: “This is an inflection point about the direction of our country, and how we handle one of the greatest issues of our time.”His stance against giving Amazon as much as $3 billion in state and city incentives for the company to create 25,000 to 40,000 jobs in Queens was backed on Tuesday by Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire and potential presidential candidate who contended that Amazon chose New York for reasons other than “the tax breaks they got, which I didn’t think they needed.”But it is also undeniable that Mr. Gianaris’s opposition to the deal has won him progressive accolades at a time when the demographics in his district are rapidly changing; it overlaps with the district that Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez won last year.Mr. Gianaris, a Harvard Law School graduate and the son of Greek immigrants, has also long been viewed as someone eager to pursue higher office, and some of his opponents, including Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, have accused him of placing political gain ahead of good government.“I think it’s unfortunate that the Senate is playing politics here,” the governor said in an interview on WNYC radio when asked about Mr. Gianaris’s nomination. “Yes, it’s great politically to oppose the Amazon deal. ‘It’s Jeff Bezos, one of the richest people, why are we giving him a break?’”That is exactly Mr. Gianaris’s argument, though he denies any political motivation.“There are certain people who are very focused on dealing with the unfairness of income inequality,” the senator said. “There are others who are more worried about the wealthy and making sure we accommodate them. And they’re going to be on the other side.”But Mr. Gianaris also offered few specifics on what a victory for his side would look like.While he has called the current deal “unacceptable,” he has also said he does not want to force concessions from the company, instead pushing to scrap the current development plan entirely and to start negotiations anew. His office has sent out fliers telling Mr. Bezos to “stay in Seattle,” but Mr. Gianaris said on Tuesday that he does not oppose outright the idea of Amazon coming to Queens.He has previously said the company should build its headquarters in Manhattan and subsidize affordable housing in Queens instead; but when asked about that proposal on Tuesday, he said it was too early to say what kind of arrangement he would ultimately support.A poll released on Tuesday by the firm HarrisX and commissioned by Amazon found that 77 percent of residents in Mr. Gianaris’s district supported bringing Amazon to the area.Mr. Cuomo, with whom Mr. Gianaris has been embroiled in a long-simmering feud, would not say if he would reject the senator’s nomination to the state board.But the governor’s office has accused Mr. Gianaris of “flip-flopping” in his stance on Amazon, pointing to a letter that he signed in 2017 inviting the company to New York.Mr. Gianaris has consistently rejected that characterization, adding that the letter said nothing about state subsidies. But he also said on Tuesday that, given Amazon officials’ recent comments that they would oppose unionization, he would not sign that letter again today.In response to arguments that the subsidies would be more than made up by the jobs that Amazon would create, Mr. Gianaris said only that previous state economic development projects have been “littered with overpromising and underdelivering.”In a separate radio interview on Tuesday, Mr. Cuomo called that stance political suicide. “If the Senate is going to be the reason that Amazon leaves New York, I wouldn’t want to be running for re-election as a Democratic senator,” he said.Though Mr. Gianaris’s opposition to Amazon has inspired special ire from the governor in recent months, tensions between the two men long predate the development deal.As a state assemblyman, Mr. Gianaris raised more than $2 million in the 2006 race for state attorney general but dropped out when it became clear that Mr. Cuomo wanted the job.He was elected instead to the Senate in 2010, where he quickly became the most public adversary of the Independent Democratic Conference, a now-defunct group of eight Democratic senators who collaborated with the Republicans to give the opposing party control of the Senate. Many progressives accused Mr. Cuomo of condoning or even secretly encouraging the group.Since then, Mr. Gianaris has cast himself as a true progressive — a dynamic that has only become more apparent since Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory last summer over her predecessor, Joseph Crowley.Mr. Gianaris led the party’s efforts to oust the I.D.C., and last year he vowed to stop taking real estate contributions. In recent months, he has courted the support of progressive activists, including from the Queens chapter of the Democratic Socialists of America, which helped fuel Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s win.Mr. Gianaris acknowledged that the demographics of his district, which is rapidly gentrifying, had evolved.“We always make decisions as information becomes available and as circumstances change,” he said. “Certainly I care about what the people who live in my district believe, and I want to reflect that.”Nowhere is that more apparent than on the senator’s Twitter account, where his pinned post at the top of his profile is not a promotion of his own accomplishments but rather a full-throated endorsement of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, writing that she “pushes bold change at a time people are sick of politics as usual.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen Weise and Thomas KaplanDeap Ubhi is a restless guy. At 26, he quit his job in private equity in Northern California, where he had grown up and gone to college, and then moved to India to found Burrp!, a local search site similar to Yelp. He sold the company in 2009 and along with other alums became what they called the Burrp! mafia, seeding and growing other start-ups in India.“Fast and is extremely straightforward,” one Indian entrepreneur wrote about Mr. Ubhi in an online reference. “Not for the faint of heart.”After returning to the West Coast, he joined Amazon in 2014 to encourage start-ups to adopt the company’s cloud-computing products. But in less than two years, Mr. Ubhi left to start a company that provided technology to restaurants, inspired by his family’s experience running an Indian-Jamaican-Mexican fusion joint.He then shifted his career in a new direction, taking his Silicon Valley mentality to the heart of the Washington bureaucracy. He joined a Pentagon effort to recruit techies, and turned the restaurant start-up into a side hustle. He wanted to use his skills not “to make a search engine more performant, or help a box of stuff get to a customer faster; but rather towards service of the American people,” Mr. Ubhi later wrote.But that circuitous career has landed Mr. Ubhi, now 39, in the center of a Washington drama. The question of what roles he played inside the Pentagon, and when, is holding up one of the largest federal information technology contracts in history. It is a scuffle with an unusual mixture of tech industry rivalries, national politics and the obscure world of government procurement.The project, a $10 billion deal to bring modern cloud computing to the Pentagon’s arsenal, drew the attention of the biggest tech companies from the moment it was announced in 2017. Amazon, Microsoft, Google, IBM and Oracle all wanted the prize.But it had a hitch: The contract would go to only one cloud vendor, even though many big companies prefer to work with multiple cloud providers. Amazon, the runaway leader in cloud computing, appeared to be perhaps the only company capable of fulfilling the Pentagon’s huge demands. And that is where Mr. Ubhi’s connections to the company, where he now works again, have thrown a wrench into the process.The software giant Oracle, which is widely considered ill equipped to land the deal, has aggressively criticized the one-vendor approach. As part of its opposition, the company is arguing in federal court that Mr. Ubhi’s ties to Amazon shaped the contract in the company’s favor.Before the case was filed last year, the Pentagon found that Mr. Ubhi had no improper influence, and it continued evaluating the proposals despite Oracle’s lawsuit. But in late February, the government said it had received “new information” about Mr. Ubhi that it needed to investigate, essentially delaying the process.A Pentagon spokeswoman, Elissa Smith, declined to say what new information about Mr. Ubhi had been brought to the department’s attention. The Pentagon had said that the winner of the contract was projected to be announced in April. But Ms. Smith said the inquiry into Mr. Ubhi was “expected to impact the award date.”Mr. Ubhi, contacted through Amazon, declined to comment, as did the company.Oracle also declined to comment. But in its lawsuit, Oracle has highlighted Mr. Ubhi’s outspoken enthusiasm for Amazon. In early 2017, he took to Twitter to thank Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder, for opposing President Trump’s travel ban. “Once an Amazonian, always an Amazonian,” he wrote.The comments touch on an issue floating around discussions about the contract: whether Mr. Trump would put his finger on the scale. The president’s disdain for Mr. Bezos and Amazon is well documented on his Twitter feed. At a private dinner with Mr. Trump, one of Oracle’s co-chief executives, Safra A. Catz, discussed the contract, Bloomberg reported last year. After that report, the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said Mr. Trump was “not involved” in the contracting process.By the standards of most administrations, it would be extraordinarily unusual for the president to insert himself into the competition for a government contract. But when Mr. Trump was president-elect, he drew attention for taking on Boeing over the cost of a new Air Force One aircraft and pressing Lockheed Martin over the cost of the F-35 fighter jet.If Mr. Trump went so far as to say “who should compete, or how one company should be evaluated compared to another, that would be a first,” said David A. Drabkin, a former procurement official at the Defense Department.A Defense Department procurement official is formally overseeing the cloud contract, known as the joint enterprise defense infrastructure, or JEDI. But Ms. Smith declined to identify the officials who would be involved with choosing the winner.A White House official reiterated on Wednesday that the president was not involved.The military has lagged behind the private sector in adopting cloud computing, but officials have made clear that they know the stakes. The Pentagon’s move to the cloud has been led by the chief information officer, Dana Deasy, a former global chief information officer at JPMorgan Chase.“Battlefield advantage is driven by who has access to the best information that can then be analyzed to inform decision making at the point and time of need,” Mr. Deasy wrote last year.Adopting technologies widely used in the private sector is key to the mission of the defense digital service, the Pentagon tech team Mr. Ubhi joined in 2016. It is unclear what Mr. Ubhi worked on during most of his time in government. But in his last two months, during fall 2017, he did market research for JEDI, according to the Pentagon.In court documents, Oracle argues that Mr. Ubhi worked on JEDI when the Pentagon decided to take the approach of hiring a single cloud provider. Oracle cites internal documents in which Mr. Ubhi expressed support for a single cloud. When the Air Force awarded a different cloud project to multiple vendors, Mr. Ubhi wrote that the contract “makes me weep.”Oracle says Mr. Ubhi clearly favored Amazon over other tech companies. In an online chat conversation on Slack about another cloud-computing provider, he sent a closed-eyes, tongue-out emoji.Amazon has countered that the Pentagon identified 72 people substantially involved in developing the contract and its requirements, and that Mr. Ubhi worked on JEDI for only seven weeks, in the early stages.At the end of October 2017, Mr. Ubhi recused himself from JEDI, saying Amazon and his restaurant start-up, Tablehero, “may soon engage in further partnership discussions.” Two weeks later, he resigned and then rejoined Amazon, where he still works on the commercial, not government, side of the business, the company said.There is no evidence that Amazon bought Tablehero. Dheeraj Jain, an investor in Tablehero, said Mr. Ubhi has not responded to emails. “We have written off this investment, unfortunately,” he added. “And we are not happy about it.”The Pentagon released the JEDI request for proposals nine months after Mr. Ubhi recused himself. It said a single cloud would let it move faster and with more security, a decision the Government Accountability Office later affirmed.Because Amazon appeared to have a leg up, the contract immediately became a point of contention among tech contractors. Both Oracle and IBM filed protests with the Government Accountability Office, which adjudicates federal contract challenges. The office denied Oracle’s protest and later rejected IBM’s on procedural grounds. Oracle, whose cloud market share is small enough to be grouped in the “other” category in several leading research reports, took its fight to the United States Court of Federal Claims.The delays from the Oracle lawsuit could help Microsoft. In the months since the request for proposals went out, the company, which has supplied the Pentagon for decades, has improved its capabilities to the point that some experts believe it is an increasingly credible competitor to Amazon.But even if Mr. Ubhi is found to have tainted the contract, it is not clear that it would change the Pentagon’s plan to use a single cloud provider. The Government Accountability Office in November found that the Pentagon’s justifications “reasonably support” the decision. The office said it would be “improper” to go against what the Pentagon determined was best for the country, even if Mr. Ubhi had shaped the contract.When he was working on the project, Mr. Ubhi said that bolstering national security was the point.In October 2017, he wrote in a blog post that he believed his work on JEDI would “be a unique asset to help our men and women in uniform make more data-driven decisions, and to allow our leadership to be more effective.”Little did he know, it seems, that his work on it could put the project on pause, or, if Oracle has its way, in jeopardy.Kate Conger contributed reporting. Alain Delaquérière contributed research.Follow Karen Weise and Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @kyweise and @thomaskaplan.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, the latest news on Boeing’s plane troubles, and more Brexit angst.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Here’s your roundup of the top news in business and tech, plus all you need to know for the week ahead. Even if your March Madness bracket was a flop, at least you can feel good about your news I.Q.MARCH 31-APRIL 6Boeing’s grounded fleet of 737 Max jets probably won’t be back in the air anytime soon. A preliminary report on what caused one of the aircraft to crash in Ethiopia last month determined that the pilots followed all of Boeing’s safety protocols. While investigators stopped short of blaming the company for the plane crash, the report does put more pressure on the manufacturer and aviation authorities to figure out what happened — and to make sure it won’t again. Boeing has already lost one order of its 737 planes from Indonesia’s national airline, and the longer it takes to get the jets cleared for flight, the more customers (and money) it stands to lose. President Trump said on Thursday that he planned to give Mexico a “one-year warning” to stop drug smuggling and illegal immigration or he’ll close the southern border. This was a big step back from a threat he had made the week before, when he said he’d close the border in the next few days. His initial statement was followed by widespread panic. A border closing would seriously harm the American economy, halting the daily flow of $1.7 billion of goods and services between the two countries. This would cause food shortages (where would we get our avocados?) and price spikes. It would also hurt the 500,000 legal workers, students, shoppers and tourists who cross the border each day. If you’re getting tired of Facebook’s user data — particularly your own — showing up in places it shouldn’t, you’re in good company. A cybersecurity firm reported this past week that it had stumbled upon a huge cache of Facebook user information on one of Amazon’s cloud computing servers. The information included millions of Facebook users’ passwords, comments, and account names, and all of it could be downloaded by anyone who found it online. The database was closed after Facebook learned about its contents, but considering the rash of similar cases in the past year, this won’t be the last breach of its kind. APRIL 7-13Mr. Trump escalated his sniping at the Federal Reserve on Friday, calling on the organization to cut interest rates and use other means to boost economic growth. He also continued to accuse the Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, of throwing water on the economy by raising interest rates last year. It’s unusual for a president to so openly attempt to exert influence over the central bank, but Mr. Trump is taking his efforts a step further by announcing plans to nominate two of his longtime supporters for seats on the Fed’s board. One is his “friend,” the former pizza executive and 2012 presidential hopeful Herman Cain, and the other is Stephen Moore, a conservative economist and adviser to Mr. Trump. Mr. Powell will surely be asked about all of this on Wednesday, after the Fed releases the minutes of its March meeting. European Union leaders will hold a last-minute summit on Wednesday to discuss the fate of Brexit, which has now dragged on past the point of absurdity. Britain is now slated to withdraw from the bloc on April 12 with or without a concrete plan, unless Prime Minister Theresa May can win Parliament’s agreement for another deadline extension. There has been much hand-wringing over the possibility of a no-deal Brexit, which could be disastrous for the British economy as well as its trade partners. To prepare, many businesses have staged their own reverse Brexit, moving operations elsewhere and holding off on investing in British companies. It’s a lose-lose for Britain, and prolonging the process isn’t likely to improve matters. A trade deal with China may finally be nigh. But then again, who really knows? On Thursday, Mr. Trump gathered with the Chinese delegation, which was in Washington for the umpteenth round of negotiations, to say that he’s anticipating an “epic” trade agreement in about four weeks. He was also expected to announce a presidential summit with Xi Jinping of China, presumably to sign that deal, but he stopped short of doing so. “If we have a deal, then we’ll have a summit,” Mr. Trump said. He is under mounting pressure to make good on the lofty promises he made to American businesses about an agreement, but the clock is ticking on the economic damage that trade tensions are wreaking around the world. Jeff and Mackenzie Bezos have finalized the details of their divorce. He will keep 75 percent of their joint shares in Amazon, leaving her with a $36 billion stake — which makes her one of the richest women in the world. Speaking of wealthy people, Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, is still battling with the Securities and Exchange Commission over his ill-advised (and unadvised) tweets about his company. A New York judge gave both parties two weeks to sort out their differences, and recommended that they put on their “reasonableness pants” to do so — a tall order, in this case.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ellen RosenIf you’ve been worrying that drones would be filling the skies over your head, dropping packages off day after day at your neighbor’s house, leaving food on doorsteps or photographing your every move, you can relax a little. At least for now.The hype over commercial drones is, so far, largely just that. One of the people who contributed to that hype was Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder. In a “60 Minutes” interview in December 2013, he predicted that deliveries by drones could become commonplace within five years.The fifth anniversary of Mr. Bezos’s prediction has come and gone, but widespread deliveries by drone are not yet a reality, neither by Amazon nor by any other company.Regulatory thickets, technical complexity and the public’s skittishness have proven to be formidable hurdles. At a minimum, the unresolved issues include whether it is safe to allow drones to fly beyond a pilot’s visual line of sight, to operate at night and to fly over people.But that doesn’t mean there’s likely to be a drone-free future. And maybe there shouldn’t be.Test programs around the world that use the technology for lifesaving pharmaceuticals as well as for food and even coffee are attempting to prove that delivery by drones is not only safe, but efficient and environmentally sound.Several companies, including Zipline, which is distributing blood by drone in Rwanda, and Swoop Aero, an Australian company that is dispensing vaccines and other medication on Vanuatu in the Pacific, are focused on medical needs.Others are turning their sights on consumers, hoping drones can be part of the answer to helping small businesses compete with behemoth retailers — or even helping the big guys keep their competitive edge.Ultimately, says the analyst Colin Snow, whether for sunscreen or sushi, the “big question is whether it makes economic sense to do ‘last mile’ delivery by drone. Some studies say yes, while others say no.”Chinese aviation administrators, for example, have already approved drone deliveries by the e-commerce giant JD.com and delivery giant SF Holding Co. But in the United States, it will depend on whether regulators eventually allow drone companies to have autonomous systems in which multiple aircraft are overseen by one pilot and whether they can fly beyond the vision of that pilot. Current regulations do not permit multiple drones per operator without a waiver. Operators like Wing, the drone-delivery company owned by Google parent Alphabet, have that capability.But the immediate economic return isn’t clear yet. According to the chief executive of Wing, James Burgess, “scale doesn’t concern us right now. We strongly believe that eventually we will be able to develop a delivery service for communities that will enable them to transport items in just a few minutes at low cost.”The company, whose drones can now travel round trip up to 20 kilometers — just over 12 miles — is participating in various stages of testing on three different continents. Its first pilot program is in a suburb of Canberra, Australia, where it is working with local merchants to deliver small packages, including over-the-counter medicine, as well as food. The Australian regulators have issued a permit to allow one pilot to operate up to 20 drones at a time with virtual oversight.“We’ve tried to keep expectations to a minimum and stayed humble. We didn’t have a lot of preconceived notions,” Mr. Burgess said. The Wing drone is a hybrid that includes, yes, wings for horizontal flying, as well as miniaturized propellers — like a helicopter’s — that allow for hovering over a destination. Somewhat surprisingly, the most popular item ordered in the Australia pilot is coffee, which can be received — still hot — in as little as three minutes from the time the order is placed.This spring, the company will begin a new trial in Helsinki, for which it is soliciting views as to what should be delivered.Mr. Burgess also said that, separate from drone tests, the company and others were working on a so-called unmanned traffic management system. Akin to virtual air traffic controllers, the system will be designed to permit multiple aircraft — manned and unmanned — to fly safely in the airspace simultaneously. Wing is also one of several companies participating in a pilot program in Virginia. As with its testing in Finland and Australia, Wing will focus on the delivery of consumer goods, including food.The Virginia site, in Blacksburg, near Virginia Tech, is one of 10 chosen by the Federal Aviation Administration as part of its Unmanned Aircraft Systems Integration Pilot Program.The 10 were culled from 149 applications from “state, local and tribal governments,” agency spokesman Les Dorr said in an email. Those in the industry didn’t apply directly, but could show their interest, he said, and more than 2,800 companies responded.Wing and Uber are two of the companies participating. But Amazon’s Prime Air division is not among those testing its technology. In a statement issued when the 10 locales were announced last May, the company said, “While it’s unfortunate the applications we were involved with were not selected, we support the Administration’s efforts to create a pilot program aimed at keeping America at the forefront of aviation and drone innovation.”Amazon’s Prime Air is, however, part of a consortium of companies participating in the European Union’s test of drone deliveries in Belgium.A number of smaller drone companies are involved in testing programs elsewhere. North Carolina has partnered with Silicon Valley-based Matternet and Zipline to deliver essential medical supplies and laboratory samples. In addition, Israeli start-up Flytrex, which is already delivering goods by drone in Reykjavik in partnership with online Icelandic retailer AHA, will focus on food in Holly Springs, N.C., a fast-growing suburb of Raleigh.Those in the industry, not surprisingly, say that the response from residents has been positive. A Pew Research Center survey in December 2017, however, found that 54 percent of Americans disapprove of drones flying near homes; 11 percent support drones, while 34 percent favor limits on use.Part of the reluctance, some say, is concern about privacy and sound. As a result, local governments are trying to educate their residents about drone operation. Noise levels are comparable to dishwashers and cars driving nearby, according to a report by Flytrex.Privacy concerns are in part alleviated by ensuring that drones do not have forward-facing cameras capable of photographing those on the ground.While the F.A.A. has chosen the 10 pilots, the programs still need to apply for agency waivers because they will fly beyond the visual line of sight, fly at night and fly over people, fundamentals not allowed under current law. The agency is seeking comments on expanding permissible uses under current law; it is also testing to evaluate the parameters of regulation.As a practical matter, this means that some of the pilot programs are not yet operational as they await F.A.A. approval.That’s O.K., said James Pearce, a spokesman for the North Carolina Department of Transportation, which prefers to ensure that the drones can safely fly and that those on the ground are not exposed to any risks, including those that are self-inflicted. “We need to make sure that people know not to try to grab the drones.”The F.A.A. is making quarterly visits, said Aaron Levitt, the assistant director of engineering for Holly Springs, N.C., and a drone enthusiast. He recently spent several days on a site visit with agency representatives as they prepared for the first phase, which will permit 15 restaurants to send orders to a local athletic complex, and planned for a later phase when the drones will fly beyond the line of sight.While the deliberate pace may seem slow, Mr. Levitt, like others interviewed, remains sanguine. “It’s like the red flag laws when cars began to populate the roads. You had to have someone walking ahead with a flag to warn others. That’s where we are today with drones — not being able to fly beyond the visual line of sight is like not allowing a car to drive faster than a person can walk.”While the companies, F.A.A. and local governments test the capabilities and limits, there’s another factor that comes into play. Unlike traditional car or truck deliveries, battery-operated drones don’t rely on fossil fuels for their short flights. A 2018 study in the journal Nature found that electric drones were “far more efficient than trucks, vans, larger gasoline drones, and passenger cars,” when comparing for distance traveled. And though the study found that benefits may be reduced once the electricity used for recharging and warehousing was factored in, drones clearly have less environmental impact than a one-item delivery by car.The environmental benefits are real, Mr. Burgess said.Or, as Yariv Bash, the chief executive of Flytrex said: “Now, you’ve got a guy driving a one-ton car bringing a half-pound hamburger. It’s crazy.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Edmund LeeAmazon is coming to New York — to grab a piece of the Yankees sports network.Jeff Bezos’s tech giant has teamed up with the storied baseball organization in an effort to buy the YES Network from its majority owner, 21st Century Fox, according to two people close to negotiations who declined to be identified because the deal wasn’t yet official. If it goes forward in its current form, the deal is expected to take a few months to close.The Yankees will become the largest shareholder in the channel, a regional sports-focused network serving the New York metropolitan area that has been valued at just under $3.5 billion, the people said. That’s less than the approximately $4 billion it was worth five years ago, when 21st Century Fox increased its stake to 80 percent.Joining the deal are Sinclair Broadcasting, Redbird Capital, the Blackstone Group and others.The YES network was borne out of a partnership struck in 1999 between the Yankees and the Nets basketball franchise. The Yankees, whose business operation has been led by Randy L. Levine, its president since 2000, formally took over the project in 2004 and sold a 49 percent stake to Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox in 2012. A second deal, in 2014, gave the Murdoch company control of the company and left the Yankees with a 20 percent stake.The Walt Disney Company, the new owner of most 21st Century Fox assets, is managing the current deal as part of its plan to sell YES along with 21 other regional sports networks. The sell-off of those properties was a condition of the Justice Department’s approval of Disney’s $71.3 billion acquisition of the 21st Century Fox assets last summer.The companies involved in the deal declined to comment on Friday.Media rights to sports franchises are incredibly lucrative, but their value on traditional cable systems has waned as fewer people are willing to pay for traditional TV. A large part of the upside in sports rights now comes from streaming. For Amazon, owning a piece of YES could be a boon to its Prime program (which costs $119 a year), especially if that membership included access to those games. That, in turn, could add more revenue, as Prime members tend to buy more on Amazon than casual online shoppers.Amazon’s motivation becomes clearer when considering the fact that growth in the number of Amazon Prime members in the United States has slowed recently. It hit 97 million members last year, up from about 90 million in 2017, according to an estimate from Consumer Intelligence Research Partners.Amazon already streams “Thursday Night Football” on Prime, for which it had paid $50 million for one N.F.L. season. The company renewed that agreement in April for two more years in a deal worth $130 million, a 30 percent increase.With the rise of streaming, regional sports networks have found themselves in a tricky position. They are effectively the middlemen of sports rights; they get money from cable and satellite companies to carry the networks, but they, in turn, have to pay sports leagues for the rights to broadcast the games. Lately, cable and satellite companies have tried to pay less to carry these networks, given the decline in subscribers — but the sports teams are set to receive contractual rate increases every year.Unlike broadcast rights, which are controlled by the teams, local streaming rights are controlled by Major League Baseball. YES, and other regional sports networks, has the rights to show games online through the 2019 season, but how those rights will be controlled going forward is unclear. That could dampen the long-term value of regional sports networks. YES, however, could benefit from the fact that it is partly owned by the Yankees. M.L.B. has been trying to extract more lucrative terms from internet and broadcast companies for streaming, like the N.F.L. does, and it could end up granting those rights to the clubs themselves to help stoke new deals.Disney, along with AT&T and NBCUniversal, plans an aggressive move into streaming by the end of this year. Its deal for most of 21st Century Fox was a keystone to that plan. Fox’s regional sports networks would have become the “perfect complement” to Disney’s ESPN, the company’s chief executive, Robert A. Iger, said when announcing the deal in December 2017. But the Justice Department disagreed, and the two companies did not challenge the condition on the merger imposed by the government. Disney already has a sports streaming app called ESPN+ that has more than two million subscribers and will become an integral part of the company’s larger streaming strategy.Disney’s acquisition has not formally closed yet, and the company has 90 days after the merger is official to sell the sports channels. The company already has approval from shareholders and regulatory bodies in the regions in which it operates.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleIn 2018, there were 585 billionaires in America, with a combined wealth of over $2.8 trillion. The wealthiest, Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, has a net worth of $160 billion.The world’s eight richest individuals have as much wealth as the bottom half in the world, and the three richest Americans hold more wealth than the bottom 50 percent of the United States.Should there be a limit to how much wealth a person has? If so, how much is too much?In “Abolish Billionaires,” Farhad Manjoo writes:Last fall, Tom Scocca, editor of the essential blog Hmm Daily, wrote a tiny, searing post that has been rattling around my head ever since.“Some ideas about how to make the world better require careful, nuanced thinking about how best to balance competing interests,” he began. “Others don’t: Billionaires are bad. We should presumptively get rid of billionaires. All of them.”Mr. Scocca — a longtime writer at Gawker until that site was muffled by a billionaire — offered a straightforward argument for kneecapping the wealthiest among us. A billion dollars is wildly more than anyone needs, even accounting for life’s most excessive lavishes. It’s far more than anyone might reasonably claim to deserve, however much he believes he has contributed to society.At some level of extreme wealth, money inevitably corrupts. On the left and the right, it buys political power, it silences dissent, it serves primarily to perpetuate ever-greater wealth, often unrelated to any reciprocal social good. For Mr. Scocca, that level is self-evidently somewhere around one billion dollars; beyond that, you’re irredeemable.He continues by discussing the idea of abolishing billionaires:But it is an illustration of the political precariousness of billionaires that the idea has since become something like mainline thought on the progressive left. Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren are floating new taxes aimed at the superrich, including special rates for billionaires. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who also favors higher taxes on the wealthy, has been making a moral case against the existence of billionaires. Dan Riffle, her policy adviser, recently changed his Twitter name to “Every Billionaire Is a Policy Failure.” Last week, HuffPost asked, “Should Billionaires Even Exist?”I suspect the question is getting so much attention because the answer is obvious: Nope. Billionaires should not exist — at least not in their present numbers, with their current globe-swallowing power, garnering this level of adulation, while the rest of the economy scrapes by.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— Should anyone have a billion dollars? Is there a limit to how much money a person should have? Are billionaires a sign of a country’s health or weakness? Are billionaires helping or hurting society?— How convincing is Mr. Manjoo’s case against billionaires? Where is his argument most effective? Where is he least persuasive?— How concerned are you about income inequality and the concentration of wealth in this country? What do you think should be done to address or remedy these issues?— In Reason Magazine, Nick Gillespie, a libertarian, responds to Mr. Manjoo’s Opinion column. He asks if the world would be better off if former Beatles musican Paul McCartney didn’t have a net worth of $1.2 billion:Would there be less suffering in the world if his money is expropriated and transferred to the wretched of the earth via higher taxes rather than through his own charitable donations and investments? Probably not, especially when you think about how much suffering, especially in the developing world, is the direct result of government action.He continues:“Abolish Billionaires” is a smart slogan, but that’s all it is. Figuratively lopping the heads off of the richest of the rich will not make life easier for the poor and dispossessed, and it won’t increase economic growth and living standards. It might sate the bloodlust of left-wing populists for a while, but certainly that outcome can be purchased for lower cost.Do you agree with Mr. Gillespie’s argument? Should we blame and punish billionaires for their own good fortune, hard work or talent? Will abolishing billionaires hurt economic growth and living standards and end up harming those less fortunate?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Amid the continuing government shutdown, Jimmy Fallon joked that it felt like one big metaphor for Donald Trump’s entire presidency.“Everyone’s fighting. People are exhausted. There’s no end in sight. It’s basically like playing a game of Monopoly with your family.” — JIMMY FALLON“Today, federal workers protested the shutdown outside the White House. It didn’t help when Trump rolled down a window and was like, ‘Don’t you have jobs to go to?’” — JIMMY FALLONAnd Jimmy Kimmel piled on with his own critiques.“The Democrats say that this is a crisis manufactured by the president. The president said, ‘That’s not true — I only manufacture things in China. I would never do that here.’” — JIMMY KIMMEL“Trump’s been promoting the idea of a wall. He started with concrete and then I guess, in the spirit of compromise, said, ‘O.K., we’ll make it out of steel slats.’ But the Department of Homeland Security did a test on a prototype, and they found that the slats can easily be cut with a saw. So unless you have $80 and access to a Home Depot, you are not getting into this country. Maybe this was the plan all along: Build the wall, and then sell Trump-brand circular saws to the Mexicans.” — JIMMY KIMMELTrevor Noah took up the cause of a French restaurant at which clothing is disallowed. Unfortunately, Noah may be too late.“France’s first nude restaurant is closing Feb. 16 — which means my Valentine’s Day reservation is still good to go! Yeah, you know, nothing quite says ‘love’ like spilling hot clam chowder on my genitals.” — TREVOR NOAH“Can you imagine being a health inspector there? What happens, you just walk in and kill yourself?” — TREVOR NOAHFrontier Airlines has started encouraging customers to tip their flight attendants. Is it an abomination, or a watershed in the airline industry? James Corden seems to think it’s more the former.“Frontier flight attendants say the most valuable tip they’ve received so far is to go and work for another airline.” — JAMES CORDEN“This is true, Frontier Airlines wants you to tip. Not to be outdone, Spirit Airlines wants you to kick in for gas money.” — JAMES CORDEN“How do you tip a flight attendant? What are you supposed to be like? ‘Brett, these peanuts are to die for. And the way you poured a can of ginger ale into this flimsy plastic cup — mwah!’” — JAMES CORDEN“New research suggests that there is a connection between excessive social media use and risky decision making. You can read the entire study here.” — SETH MEYERS, showing an image of President Trump’s Twitter feed“Apparently, romantic text messages between Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and his new girlfriend have leaked to the press. Well, it depends on your definition of romantic. It’s a lot of, ‘Yeah, baby, do you like that? Then here’s a list of other things you might be interested in.’” — SETH MEYERSJimmy Kimmel: “Donald Trump puts the ‘tan’ in tantrum.”Michael Kosta, a “Daily Show” correspondent, attended a protest led by government workers currently on furlough because of the shutdown.It’s been 20 years since “The Sopranos” debuted. What are the 20 best TV dramas since then?Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowThe 100 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byOur emerging post-privacy order isn’t quite totalitarian, but it’s getting there.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistIn our age of digital connection and constantly online life, you might say that two political regimes are evolving, one Chinese and one Western, which offer two kinds of relationships between the privacy of ordinary citizens and the newfound power of central authorities to track, to supervise, to expose and to surveil.The first regime is one in which your every transaction can be fed into a system of ratings and rankings, in which what seem like merely personal mistakes can cost you your livelihood and reputation, even your ability to hail a car or book a reservation. It’s one in which notionally private companies cooperate with the government to track dissidents and radicals and censor speech; one in which your fellow citizens act as enforcers of the ideological consensus, making an example of you for comments you intended only for your friends; one in which even the wealth and power of your overlords can't buy privacy.The second regime is the one they’re building in the People’s Republic of China.This is a dark joke; it isn’t meant to minimize the horrors of China’s march into information-age totalitarianism. Beginning with its successful taming of the internet, Beijing has treated the darkest episodes of “Black Mirror” as a how-to guide for social control and subjugation — with “social credit” scores and official public shamings for people whose daily conduct disappoints, official Communist Party apps that you’d better use if you know what’s good for you, surveillance technologies and facial recognition software as boots on the back of nonapproved religions, and compulsory internet as part of the brutal, tech-enabled replay of the Cultural Revolution imposed in China’s Muslim west.What’s happening in the West with privacy and authority is happily different. Unlike China’s system, our emerging post-privacy order is not (for now) totalitarian; its impositions are more decentralized and haphazard, more circumscribed and civilized, less designed and more evolved, more random in the punishments inflicted and the rules enforced.This means that, for instance, there is no central party apparatus encouraging our corporations to create individual “trust scores” for every consumer (even if they’re still doing it), no official commissars organizing digital mobs (even if shaming for random wrongthink is now a commonplace), no political persecution involved in most cases where public figures have their secrets and selfies exposed on the internet. (Perhaps Jeff Bezos's claims of Saudi involvement will pan out, but so far he mostly seems to have been the victim of his own stupidity and his mistress's brother's greed.) And it means that the radicals surveilled by corporate-government cooperation are mostly white nationalists and jihadists, not human rights advocates and Christian pastors, as in China.But this list of real differences is still also a list of partial similarities, of ways in which the architecture of our system replicates certain features of the emergent Chinese panopticon, even if the life lived within our system is still blessedly freer than in theirs.Indeed our system cannot help recreating features of the Chinese order, because the way that we live on the internet leaves us naked before power in a radical new way. In the West that power is still decentralized, diffuse, divided and polarized, and therefore likely to be limited and checked. But to adapt Deng Xiaoping’s famous call for “socialism with Chinese characteristics,"" the Western order in the internet age might be usefully described as a “liberalism with some police-state characteristics.” Those characteristics are shaped and limited by our political heritage of rights and individualism. But there is still plainly an authoritarian edge, a gentle “pink police state” aspect, to the new world that online life creates.And what’s striking is how easily we have come to tolerate it. Yes, there are moments when particular organs of surveillance get pushback — the N.S.A. during the brief “libertarian moment” starring Rand Paul and Edward Snowden, the social media companies from liberals when it turned out that the Trump digital team no less than the Obama whiz kids could exploit their user data.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]But apart from the high-minded and the paranoid, privacy per se is not a major issue in our politics. Most people want the convenience of the internet far more than they want the private spaces that older forms of communication protected. They shrug off the stalker-ish ways that corporations hurl their ads at you throughout your day. They put surveillance devices in their homes and pockets without a qualm. They accept hackings and online shamings the way a Californian shrugs off earthquakes. They assume that the extremists being surveilled and censored and sometimes arrested probably deserve it. And they welcome the possible advantages of panoptical living, hoping for less crime and less police misconduct, better public health, more exposure of corruption — plus, of course, the chance to see their favorite celebrities in the nude.So for those who object inherently to our new nakedness, regard the earthquakes as too high a price for Amazon’s low prices, or fear what an Augustus or a Robespierre might someday do with all this architecture, the best hope for a partial restoration of privacy has to involve more than just an anxiety about privacy alone. It requires a more general turn against the virtual, in which fears of digital nakedness are just one motivator among many — the political piece of a cause that’s also psychological, intellectual, aesthetic and religious.This is the hard truth suggested by our online experience so far: That a movement to restore privacy must be, at some level, a movement against the internet. Not a pure Luddism, but a movement for limits, for internet-free spaces, for zones of enforced pre-virtual reality (childhood and education above all), for social conventions that discourage career-destroying tweets and crotch shots by encouraging us to put away our iPhones.Absent such a movement we may not join China in dystopia. But the dystopian elements in our own order will be here to stay.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe rapper talked to Moj Mahdara, the C.E.O. of Beautycon, about financial literacy and how more women in beauty can “chase the bag.”By Crystal MartinThere is a lot of money to be made in beauty, and right now a lot of it is being made by male executives. Moj Mahdara wants to change that. The C.E.O. of Beautycon, which holds semiannual festival-like trade shows, recently raised $20 million in funding and has begun to open pop-up retail spaces in Los Angeles. She wants to see women achieve Warren Buffett-, Bill Gates- and Jeff Bezos-level wealth on their own terms. So she brought in a case study: Cardi B, the queen of “money moves.”Cardi talks about money without condescension. “Everything she’s telling you — about spending, saving, taxes — is transparent and through her lived experience,” said Ms. Mahdara. At Beautycon NYC, Cardi and Ms. Mahdara spoke about how the basics of financial literacy ignore some personal-finance realities. “You can save money when you can afford to save money,” Cardi said. “How you gonna save money and you have bills to pay?”Ms. Mahdara shared a common statistic on pay parity: A woman makes around 80 cents on a man’s dollar (a recent study found the gap is worse than that, 49 cents to every dollar). She asked Cardi for her insight on the matter. The rapper insisted she gets paid equally — now, at least. Back when Cardi was Insta-famous, but not yet “Bodak Yellow” famous, she hosted parties at clubs for a fee. It became clear that the rappers and other guys she co-hosted with were making more money than she was for the same job. “I said, ‘I’m going to stop taking bookings until y’all pay me more,’” she said. And “that bag doubled.” “Women are not comfortable talking about money,” Ms. Mahdara said, and men aren’t comfortable talking to them about it. She believes that her appearance and demeanor, as a butch, queer woman, intimidates the men she meets through business. “I think that’s half the reason I have issues with investors or people I work with,” she said. “I’m not a female they can put in a category and that’s uncomfortable for them.”Here, Cardi shares advice for leveling up, hustling and getting paid:Cardi said she was always shy, and that it took getting used to asking for what she wanted. “That’s why men are sometimes good hustlers,” she said. “Women are so timid. A lot of girls ask me, ‘How do I get what I want?’ By asking.” Cardi was a stripper for a few years before she found fame online and on “Love & Hip Hop.” She hates bringing it up, she said, because she’s not suggesting that women should follow her path. But she learned a lot about money while dancing for tips. “When I started becoming popular, I used to say, ‘I want y’all to throw me money. Don’t even talk to me if y’all not throwing me some money,’” she said. “Then when they started seeing me, it was like, ‘Here I know you want some money so let me throw it at you.’ You just gotta ask.” (Last month video footage surfaced on Instagram in which Cardi said that she drugged and robbed men while working as a stripper. In a statement, the rapper said, “I'm a part of a hip-hop culture where you can talk about where you come from, talk about the wrong things you had to do to get where you are.”)After having a daughter, Kulture, last year with her husband, Offset, Cardi feels even more driven to make money. “I can never be comfortable,” she said. Motherhood brings up thoughts of her own mother, who always told her to have children only if she could afford to take care of them on her own. “I used to think my mom was paranoid. But as you get older you understand what your mom be talking to you about,” she said. “I always dated guys that had money. But I didn’t have the money. What happens if we separate? I don’t want to be asking you for stuff — no, that’s not my style.”Cardi would rather see you using influencers as inspiration for how to get money rather than distraction from making it. “These bloggers making mad money from y’all watching,” she said. “Watch their recipe.” Cardi said the lavish lives rappers portray aren’t realistic. Flying private, for example, is at best an excess. But sometimes, to avoid the drama of airports now that she has Kulture, it’s unavoidable. “It’s a write-off sometimes, but you gotta prove all day that it’s a write-off,” she said. “And even if it is, that’s money you could've had.”Cardi said that people criticize her for her past work as a stripper. She should have gone to college, they say. She is candid though about the everyday expenses of higher education — like transportation, housing and food — that made community college unaffordable for her. “You cannot even get a room in New York City if you got a job that pays you $300 a week,” she said. She advises that if you’re working and hustling, do it with the future in mind. Cardi B is passionate about taxes but understands why not everyone shares her opinion. If she makes $15 million, for example, she told Ms. Mahdara, $8 or 9 million is going to the government. “Then you be like, ‘Damn, I gave all this money to Uncle Sam, and there’s still potholes in my street.’” And besides, health care and college aren’t free, she said. It’s part of why she talks about politics so much to her fans. “I keep educating,” she said. “I try to elevate.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNAndrew Kingsley and John Lieb leave little to the imagination (except, of course, an entire Saturday crossword puzzle).By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE — Our two constructors have shared work on puzzles before. (If you read their notes, you’ll see that they collaborate in real life on a very cool crossword contest in Boston, which you could participate in, or attend, this year.) They seem like a pair of angels, but honestly, I blushed a couple of times while working this grid. Maybe it was just an overload of awkward Jeff Bezos news that primed my mind to go there, but it went there. Was I the only one in that PICKLE? I’m not complaining — it was a really fun solve!Actually, perhaps I clutched my pearls only because when I went to the classics to find an illustration for this piece, and honestly could not find a Pan statue or Minotaur from any perspective other than the one above that was SFW (Safe For Wordplay). I certainly hope no one is offended by la muchacha’s wardrobe malfunction above — if so, please refer to 48D. No matter: I know you’ll all snap your whips in the FORUM.Right off the bat I got stubborn at 1A with “Luddites,” which is wrong (it’s THE AMISH, a debut). I spend a lot of my day job rowing back and forth across the river between overworked developers and overwhelmed editors relying on fast-changing tech, and though the Luddites always have the best jokes, they always try to sink the boat. I adored the clues for SCOOPS, SPF and IN TEARS, but the whole grid today was really bright.Some cool portmanteaus today: I think GOBOTS counts, HOTLANTA, GROUPONS and maybe FLEXTIME, if you’re feeling a little permissive.17A: A toy kite, which could be gripped by a kid’s grimy paws, gets its name from a raptor with the ability to hover, unmoving, high in the sky waiting for the movement of prey. A kited check, which could be gripped by a scammer’s grimy paws, gets its name from the notion of a monetary promise, floating on air, with nothing to back it up. The grippers on the original kite? TALONS, of course, to grab that little bunny.34A: This guy (and the guy right below) have been in the puzzle enough times to not stump me, but I liked their proximity and also instantly thought, “YANNI is definitely a manscaper.” No? I couldn’t find any evidence of Yanni and BRIAN ENO actually working together, but the pyrotechnics in his 2015 concert at the pyramids of Gizathis pyramids concert knocked me out a bit so I’m throwing it in.53A: The clue was blind, I thought, but the word is odd enough that a couple of crosses allowed me to stumble on ICICLE. I always think of once reading about the perfect way to commit murder once — it might have been this interview with P. D. James.5D: This is a debut, and a newfangled word for an old practice (I refer you to “Emanscapation: Between the Public and the Pubic in Ancient Greece,” although I sure didn’t fact check that essay). MANSCAPING is one of those things that fashion magazines and pop culture seize on and make into a fad, but we all know that the MINOTAUR shaved his back (according to Picasso, at least).11D: Because of the pattern of my solve (knowing the last three letters here), I assumed this was some sort of “task” and thought myself out of A LOT TO ASK.31D: There’s a too-poor-for-a-ring prop that I assumed Homer had used to propose to Marge, a “cigar band,” although I couldn’t tell you why that slip of paper seems like a known alternative to some big expensive bauble. Homer was actually working (as a trainee) at a restaurant called the “Gulp ’N’ Blow,” where you could get a taco, or an ONION RING. The proposal is very darling, while Marge is “as big as a house.”Andrew: This puzzle started with the SE stack, as I had been trying forever to get PIXIE CUT into a puzzle (my sister proudly donned this style for a while). When FLEXTIME and DOMINATRIX fell into place, I knew I was cooking. Then I hit PANSEXUAL (more and more I’m trying to incorporate queer-themed language into my themelesses to expose solvers to aspects and identities within the queer community) and was a happy man. While I’m bummed that COME OUT was not clued as I had hoped, I am so happy by the sparkle that John brought to the left side — a true collaborative effort.John: It was great fun trying to fill the left half of this puzzle, working to build on the lively right half that Andrew presented to me. I’m excited to have our third collaboration appear in The Times. I’m also excited to be working with Andrew on the third edition of Boswords, the summer crossword tournament that we co-direct in Boston (with the help of an amazing group of constructors and volunteers!). The date is set for Sunday, July 28, and you can get more info at www.boswords.org. Hope to see you there!Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLanguage has been neutralized when it should state the obvious.By Timothy EganContributing Opinion Writer You could always slight the very rich by calling them moneybags, robber barons, fat cats or plutocrats. Billionaire was a neutral word, grounded in math: Such a person could spend $10 million a year, for 100 years, before the pile was gone.Then came Howard Schultz, a billionaire times two, insisting that people not use the B-word in describing him. Better to refer to the 540 Americans in his sensitive class as “people of means.” For this he was roundly mocked, and rightly so.The pushback to the pusher of our favorite South American drug is a fair start. But there is much more to clean up. For we live in a time when language has been weaponized for high crimes and petty cruelties, while neutralized when it should state the obvious. Democracy may die in darkness, as the slogan of a rival newspaper has it, but it also slips away under cover of euphemism.You can date it to Republican repackaging of the estate tax as a “death tax,” or tax cuts for the rich morphing into “tax relief” for the overly burdened. And were French fries really “freedom fries” during a spasm of faux-patriotism?Maybe the food marketers started us down this road when “natural” was slapped onto any label — turpentine, for example, which also happens to be gluten-free. Or Big Pharma, using “wellness” to describe treatment by drugs with names from a dance party: Lyrica, Celebrex, and then the Cialis gets passed around.All of that can be excused as framing to get an advantage. The Democrats are doing it now with the Green New Deal and “Medicare for all” — both of which sound pleasantly pie-in-the-sky and historically resonant until you look at the details, which their sponsors didn’t bother to do.The most egregious of political language fraud, as George Orwell noted in his seminal essay on the subject, is used for “the defense of the indefensible.” To that end, the Trump administration has been a fount of criminal circumlocution.We all know about “alternative facts” and “truth isn’t truth” and “fake news” — used by the administration to describe reality. But less attention has been paid to this government’s description of cages for young children separated from their parents. The Trump administration has invented “tender age” shelters to defend the indefensible. It sounds so caring.And Trump is downgrading “national emergency” from something that comes with a siren for a soundtrack to just another term for cheap political expediency. It used to be a big deal for a reputable news organization to flat out call the president a liar. Now, liar must be the most-used descriptor linked to this president. It’s also the right word. But “liar” has lost its sting, because Trump clearly doesn’t care about telling the truth. As a journalist, I’d get in more trouble if I said the president is fat — my bad, I mean plus-sized.The word “socialist” is back in play. This term also used to sting, evoking Cold War authoritarians and empty store shelves. That was true then. What’s true now is that socialist “has lost its meaning,” especially among millennials, as Peter Buttigieg, the young presidential aspirant and mayor of South Bend, Ind., said.If used to describe help for the elderly, subsidized college or affordable health care, socialist is a net plus. If it implies total government control without choice, it’s a loser. We’ve only just begun the modern reframing of this power word.At the White House, “executive time” is the bogus term for the majority of the president’s day spent watching Fox News hosts praise him, tweeting insults or playing virtual golf in the new room-sized simulator just installed in the house where Lincoln slept. Kramer did more work in the “Seinfeld” episode where he pretended to have a job.The border “wall” is a “complexifier,” to use the odd word that multibillionaire Jeff Bezos introduced, but also central to Trumpian Newspeak. The wall doesn’t exist, not in the form Trump has described it — “a great, great wall” made of “hardened concrete.” And yet, it’ll soon be finished. How so?In a masterstroke of up-is-down, Trump’s rally in El Paso this week switched the “Build the Wall” slogan of his cult to “Finish the Wall.” As my colleagues at Upshot showed, Trump keeps weaseling out of his wall promise by changing the wording — a fence, a barrier, some German shepherds.The language is crucial here, because it’s the central lie of his presidency. Like Schultz, Trump wants to use his own verbal wallpaper to cover the truth. I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan).The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Bipartisan negotiations to forge a border security deal broke down yesterday, potentially setting up the federal government for another shutdown ahead of a Friday deadline.What happened? “The impasse appears to center on Democratic demands for a limit on the number of unauthorized immigrants already in the country who could be detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers, according to aides familiar with the talks,” according to the NYT. Republicans wanted an exception to the cap for criminals; Democrats said a proposed 16,500-bed cap left more than enough room for them.What’s at stake? The last shutdown, the longest in U.S. history, cost the American economy $11 billion and tanked President Trump’s political standing with the public. Another shutdown could cause more economic harm, hitting the I.R.S. just as tax season starts.What’s next? Lawmakers could pass another short-term spending bill, though many are reluctant to punt on a final budget agreement again. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump is preparing to hold a rally for supporters in El Paso. (Many in the city aren’t happy with that.) But he really has only two choices, according to Axios: shut down the government or declare a national emergency to get border wall money, and “both options are horrible.”The Amazon founder risked embarrassment by going public with what he said was an extortion attempt by The National Enquirer. So far, he’s scoring big points (“Saturday Night Live” jokes aside).His disclosure has gotten results. Federal prosecutors are reviewing his extortion claim, the NYT reports, citing unnamed sources. If The Enquirer’s parent company broke the law, it would be in violation of a nonprosecution agreement over its paying hush money to help President Trump in 2016. (A lawyer for the publisher’s chairman said yesterday that the company committed no crime.)And he’s winning the P.R. battle. At a time when billionaires are reviled, Maureen Dowd of the NYT writes, “the richest dude on earth has managed to come through a traumatic week inspiring admiration.” (Glenn Greenwald of The Intercept counters that it would be odd for Mr. Bezos to gain pity, given that Amazon “is a critical partner for the U.S. government in building an ever-more invasive, militarized and sprawling surveillance state.”)Where did The Enquirer go wrong? Danny Westneat of The Seattle Times points out that it picked a fight with the head of a company so powerful that it got Seattle to change its tax policies and won $3 billion in tax incentives from New York for office space. “You don’t pressure Amazon. It only goes the other way around,” Mr. Westneat writes.But Mr. Bezos could still lose. Jon Swartz of Barron’s notes that Amazon shares fell 2.6 percent on Friday. “His hands-on management is considered crucial to the success of the company and anything that pulls his attention away from day-to-day management is at least a concern for investors,” Mr. Swartz writes.Fears that Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. could roil economies have now officially spread across the Atlantic.Wall Street has been warned about Brexit’s impact. “With less than seven weeks to go before the U.K. is due to leave the E.U., several S&P 500 groups have for the first time put Wall Street on formal notice of the risks should London and Brussels fail to reach a divorce deal,” the FT reports. Companies like Lockheed Martin, McCormick, Expedia and Cadbury have all spoken out.Driving the concern are fears that a depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable in Britain, while the costs of imported British goods could rise. There’s also a fear about the broader effect of Brexit on global political and economic stability.American banks are also nervous. “While U.S. banks want Britain to maintain the closest possible ties with the EU after Brexit, U.K. banks and insurers are anxious they don’t become beholden to new laws made by Brussels,” Bloomberg reports.More Brexit news: The E.U.’s chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, said that he “will not reopen” the existing Brexit deal, but is open to reworking the political declaration that accompanies it. The British government is trying to secure an extra two weeks in which to win concessions from Europe by promising lawmakers another vote on Britain’s withdrawal options. And Prime Minister Theresa May has also offered concessions to the opposing Labour Party to break the current impasse in Parliament.Americans are getting a rude surprise: Their refunds appear to be getting smaller, despite President Trump and Republicans passing a huge set of tax cuts over a year ago.How big is the drop? “The average refund of $1,865 was 8.4 percent smaller than the average refund in the period last year,” Reuters reports, citing figures from the I.R.S. Heather Long of the WaPo adds that the number of people receiving a refund has fallen by nearly 25 percent so far. (The I.R.S. warns not to read too much into the figures, because this is just part of the data — a result of delayed processing due to the government shutdown.)Why is this happening? It’s not actually a sign that Americans are paying more in taxes. “People generally got a piece of their tax cut last year gradually in the form of lower withholding on their paychecks,” Joseph Rosenberg of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center told the WaPo.People are angry nonetheless. The WaPo reports: “People have already taken to social media, using the hashtag #GOPTaxScam, to vent their anger. Many blame President Trump and the Republicans for shrinking refunds. Some on Twitter even said they wouldn’t vote for Trump again after seeing their refunds slashed.”The last class of tech companies that gained valuations of over $1 billion, including Uber and Airbnb, remade entire industries. Don’t expect the next wave to be nearly as flashy, according to Erin Griffith of the NYT.Who are they? They have names like Benchling, Checkr and Zola, and many create software for specific industries — including data analysis systems for farmers and background checks for gig workers.Why aren’t they as exciting as their predecessors? Ms. Griffith points out that Uber, Airbnb and their peers “built global empires by simply taking existing businesses — like taxis, food delivery and hotels — and making them mobile.” Easy opportunities to disrupt traditional businesses have dried up, forcing new companies to find smaller niches.But don’t underestimate their potential. “Maybe it’s not as sexy as the companies in the first wave,” the venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded to the NYT. But Anand Sanwal of the data provider CB Insights said they were still growing fast, adding, “If you are one of those high-momentum companies, investors are going to be beating down your door because there is so much interest in investing in the next big winner.”Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, warned yesterday of a global economy “that is growing more slowly than we had anticipated.”She sees four big risks. “Trade tensions and tariff escalations, financial tightening, uncertainty related to Brexit outcome and spillover impact and an accelerated slowdown of the Chinese economy” are all “clouds” on the horizon, she told the World Government Summit in Dubai.And they could spell trouble. “When there are too many clouds,” she added, it takes just one lighting bolt “to start the storm.”But the I.M.F. thinks the Fed is playing smart. “The fact that the Fed has put a pause on raising rates is going to provide a lot of support to the economy,” Gita Gopinath, the I.M.F.’s top economist, told the FT. “We endorse the Fed view of having a data-driven approach.”President Trump is expected to sign an executive order today meant to spur the development and regulation of artificial intelligence, Cade Metz of the NYT writes.The news: Mr. Trump is to introduce the “American A.I. Initiative,” which aims to better educate workers in the field, improve access to the cloud computing services and data needed to build A.I. systems, and promote cooperation with foreign powers.Context: “A.I. experts across industry, academia and government have long called on the Trump administration to make the development of artificial intelligence a major priority,” Mr. Metz writes, adding that they are “concerned that China could surpass the United States” in the development of such technologies.But: “The order does not set aside funds for A.I. research and development,” Mr. Metz adds, “and the administration provided few details on how it will put its new policies into effect.”Steve Mandel has stepped down as the head of the hedge fund Lone Pine Capital.Among the reasons Santander rescinded its offer to hire the investment banker Andrea Orcel? Reportedly his desire to attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.Kristina Salen, a former chief financial officer of the shopping site Etsy, has joined Moda Operandi, a luxury fashion start-up, as its C.F.O.The English Premier League is looking to America for a successor to its C.E.O., Richard Scudamore. British candidates appear uninterested in the job.Deals• The aluminum-parts maker Arconic plans to break itself up. (WSJ)• Apollo Global Management is reportedly near a deal to buy Cox Enterprises’s 14 regional TV stations for about $3 billion. (Reuters)• The medical equipment maker Smith & Nephew reportedly held talks to buy NuVasive, a maker of medical instruments for spinal surgeries, for more than $3 billion. (FT)• TPG Capital closed its seventh Asia-focused private equity fund at over $4.6 billion. (Reuters)Politics and policy• Democratic lawmakers are proposing steep new taxes on the superrich — and the public loves it. (NYT)• Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado and a potential presidential candidate, says that cutting private health insurance as part of Medicare for all is a “bad opening offer.” (Politico)• President Trump succeeded in dividing Democrats by warning about socialism. (Hill)• The biggest star of Clive Davis’s exclusive pre-Grammys gala? Speaker Nancy Pelosi. (AP)Trade• Trade talks between the U.S. and China resume today in Beijing. (Straits Times)• White House officials have reportedly discussed a summit meeting between President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China at Mar-a-Lago next month to resolve the trade fight. (Axios)• The trade agreement to replace Nafta faces an uphill climb in Congress. (Axios)Tech• Some Amazon executives are reportedly reconsidering the decision to set up a campus in New York, but opponents think that might be a bluff. (WSJ, Recode)• Huawei has threatened to sue the Czech Republic if the country’s cybersecurity agency does not rescind a warning about the risk the company poses to the nation’s critical infrastructure. (NYT)• Sprint accused AT&T of false advertising, saying that its rival is incorrectly telling customers that they are receiving 5G data service. (WSJ)• Tesla may finally be delivering Model 3s, but now it can’t keep up with servicing them. (WSJ)Best of the rest• A new activist hedge fund, Impactive Capital, is a rarity: It’s female- and minority-led. (WSJ)• Household staples, from diapers to baking soda, may get more expensive. (WSJ)• U.S. colleges raised $46.7 billion in the year that ended last June, led by Harvard with $1.4 billion. (Bloomberg)• Here’s a rundown of the 100 most sustainable U.S. companies, according to Barron’s. (Barron’s)• How the Fed’s recent U-turn on rates cascaded through global markets. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe ShiftBy Kevin RooseAUSTIN, Tex. — Among the techies who attended the annual South by Southwest Interactive conference the past few days, the hottest topic of conversation — besides the swarms of drunken idiots careening around Austin on rented electric scooters — was Senator Elizabeth Warren’s ground-shaking proposal to break up large tech companies like Amazon, Google and Facebook.In her proposal, which she released on the eve of the conference, Ms. Warren argued that these companies have abused their power and harmed competition in two big ways.The first is by offering their own products on platforms they control: Amazon giving preferential treatment to its house brands, or Apple promoting its own apps inside the iOS App Store. Ms. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat and presidential candidate, argues that the companies should be required to do one or the other — sell their own goods or run a third-party marketplace — but not both.“You can be an umpire or you can own teams,” she said. “But you can’t be an umpire and own one of the teams that’s in the game.”Ms. Warren also argues that by acquiring potential competitors, as in Facebook’s acquisitions of Instagram and WhatsApp, large tech companies have made it harder for smaller start-ups to compete on fair terms. She proposes appointing regulators who would undo such mergers, and break up the conglomerates.Regulating big tech is quickly becoming a central theme of the 2020 presidential race. Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and others have also talked about the need to rein in the tech giants. And Ms. Warren has demonstrated more technology literacy than most elected officials.But many of the tech-industry insiders I spoke with in Austin, including some who agree with Ms. Warren that the big companies are too powerful, cautioned that some of the details in her proposal were too vague, and could backfire if put into effect as written.Ms. Warren’s plan is a bold first stab at reform, and some of her proposals make a lot of sense. But I’d offer a few edits.Apply specific fixes to specific problems. One shortcoming in Ms. Warren’s plan — and it’s an understandable one, given that this is a campaign proposal and not a final set of rules — is that it proposes broad solutions to narrow problems.Lawmakers don’t typically craft regulations for individual companies. That’s for good reason: A law that specifically targeted Amazon, and not its competitors, would be seen as creating an unfair double standard.Instead, Ms. Warren’s proposal targets technology companies with more than $25 billion in annual revenue that operate third-party marketplaces — a group that includes Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Google — and proposes a set of rules that apply to all of them, as well as any companies that meet the threshold in the future. (Microsoft, which makes more than $25 billion in annual revenue and has a third-party marketplace in the form of the Windows app store, was somehow spared.)The problem with applying a one-size-fits-four model to tech, as the industry analyst Ben Thompson has written, is that the large tech companies have different business models that pose different anti-competitive risks. The stranglehold that Google and Facebook have on the digital advertising market is different from the way Amazon muscles out e-commerce brands, which is different from the way Apple uses its App Store to force burdensome terms on developers.The possibility of unintended consequences means that tailoring regulations to address each of these problems is important. A law that banned Amazon from competing with third-party sellers on its platform could also cripple Chromebook laptops, or prevent iPhone users from getting access to their iTunes libraries.Rather than one giant package that crams everything together, a set of effective tech regulations would treat each problem discretely, and address each with surgical precision.Split off cloud businesses. Ms. Warren proposes having big tech companies split off significant chunks of their businesses, like separating Google’s ad operations from its search engine. But she does not mention one of the clearest examples of oligopolistic behavior in the tech industry: cloud computing.Right now, much of the internet is powered by infrastructure owned by a small number of giant tech companies that include Amazon, Microsoft and Google. These companies make a killing by renting out data storage, computing power and other essential services to other businesses, essentially selling the picks and shovels of the digital gold rush.The cloud-computing market may not seem like an obvious antitrust target. It is highly competitive, and years of price wars between the giants have driven the costs of these services down. Doesn’t giving young start-ups the ability to rent world-class infrastructure make it easier, not harder, for them to compete?Yes, it does. But the concentration of critical infrastructure among so few companies — each of which also operates enormous consumer-internet businesses of its own — gives those companies enormous power, and invites anti-competitive abuse.For example, let’s imagine that Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, decided to sabotage Netflix, which runs on Amazon Web Services, Amazon’s cloud-computing unit, in order to help his company’s streaming video service. He could theoretically tell the Amazon Web Services team to slow Netflix’s traffic, or analyze its usage patterns to determine which Netflix shows Amazon’s streaming-video team should copy.To be clear, Mr. Bezos is extremely unlikely to do that, given that it would be a scandalous violation of Amazon’s privacy policies and would cost the company a lucrative customer. But the reality that companies with dominant internet services also provide the infrastructure that powers much of the consumer internet is a clear example of the kind of market consolidation Ms. Warren is trying to address.An effective breakup proposal could require companies like Amazon, Google and Microsoft to spin their cloud-computing divisions off into stand-alone businesses, in a manner similar to the one Ms. Warren proposed for breaking up e-commerce marketplaces. To adapt her baseball analogy, tech companies would either play on the team or own the stadium, but not both.Get rid of the “app tax.” Another easy, specific fix would be to stop Apple and Google, the makers of the two dominant mobile operating systems, from taking unfair advantage of mobile app developers.At the moment, any company that wants to sell in-app purchases or subscriptions through an iOS app must pay what software developers derisively call the “Apple tax”: a fee of 15 to 30 percent that Apple skims off the top of in-app purchases and subscriptions bought by users. (Google’s mobile app store charges similar fees.)These fees add up quickly. Before it removed in-app subscriptions last year, Netflix was paying Apple an estimated $700,000 a day for the privilege of selling subscriptions in its app. And some competitors have begun to complain that these platforms’ strict developer policies amount to bullying. On Wednesday, Spotify filed a complaint with the European Commission over Apple’s App Store policies, arguing that they unfairly stifle competition.Apple and Google would argue that their fees are justified, because operating an app store requires hiring reviewers and security teams and all kinds of other expenses. But these companies have monopoly control of their own mobile universes, and they have used that power to set up virtual tollbooths that suck billions of dollars a year out of the pockets of smaller competitors.Don’t get lured into a censorship debate. Something bizarre happened on Monday when Facebook momentarily took down several of Ms. Warren’s Facebook ads promoting her proposal to break up big tech. Ms. Warren seized on the episode, saying it was proof of Facebook’s ability to “shut down a debate” over its power.The ads were quickly reinstated, and Facebook made it clear that the removal was not a case of politically motivated censorship. The company has a longstanding policy that limits the use of Facebook’s name in ads, a measure that is mostly meant to prevent sketchy advertisers from claiming falsely to be “Facebook’s official quiz game” or whatever.But the idea that Facebook would censor one of its prominent critics was irresistible to politicians, including Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and other conservative lawmakers who have spent the past several years complaining that social media platforms are engaging in partisan censorship.“She’s right — Big Tech has way too much power to silence Free Speech,” Mr. Cruz wrote of Ms. Warren in a message on Twitter.One problem with the debate over the tech companies’ power is that it risks conflating real anti-competitive behavior (like Facebook’s shutting off data access to competitors) with imaginary abuses (like Mr. Cruz’s unsupported claims that social media platforms are biased against conservatives). The former is a real menace; the latter is a bad-faith attempt to work the refs and preserve a partisan advantage. But in political discourse, both can be framed as proof of the need for “neutral platforms.”The best advice I could possibly give Ms. Warren, or any other Democrat hoping to bring big tech to heel, is to focus squarely on competition, and to avoid being sucked into partisan debates about content censorship.The worst outcome of a push to regulate big tech companies would be a set of rules that made it easier for people to exploit these companies’ power, while leaving their fortresses intact.Kevin Roose is a columnist for Business and a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. His column, “The Shift,” examines the intersection of technology, business and culture. @kevinroose • FacebookAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with deadly storms in the Southeast, a crucial vote to oppose President Trump’s national emergency declaration, and a potential deal in trade negotiations with China.A cluster of storms ripped through the Southeast on Sunday, leaving a trail of destruction that stretched into Florida and Georgia.All of the reported deaths in Alabama were in Lee County, on the border with Georgia. The county’s sheriff said today that the number of people missing was in the double digits.Related: Intense cold weather in the Rockies and Midwest is expected to spread east today, and one meteorologist warned of an “all-week cold snap” for much of the country. Schools were closed in New York City, where a storm that had been expected to dump 10 inches of snow overnight had moved out by early this morning. Here’s the latest.On the U.S. border with Mexico, migrant women and girls are often the victims of sexual assaults that go unreported, uninvestigated and unprosecuted. Their attackers often threaten to expose their immigration status — or worse — if they report an assault.President Trump has used the violence to make his case for a border wall. The Times spoke with eight women from Central America who were sexually assaulted between 2013 and 2016 about their experiences.Yesterday: Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky said he would support a resolution to block Mr. Trump’s attempt to use emergency powers to fund a border wall. Mr. Paul became the fourth Republican senator to back the measure, appearing to give it the necessary support to pass. Mr. Trump has said he would veto it.From The Times: Our new email newsletter, Crossing the Border, brings you the stories of some of the millions who live along the border. Read the latest one and sign up.More than 440 rural nursing homes have closed or merged in the past decade, according to a group that tracks long-term care. But instead of finding new care in their communities, many patients go to different homes far from their families.Some facilities were forced to close after failing to meet health and safety standards, but far more have collapsed for financial reasons, including health care policies that encourage people to choose independent and assisted living or to stay in their own homes with help from caregivers.Quotable: “How often have you heard somebody say, ‘If I go to a nursing home, just shoot me?’” said Stephen Monroe, a researcher who tracks aging in America. “In the rural areas, you don’t have options.”The challenges faced by the country’s armed forces were evident after one of its aging aircraft was shot down by Pakistan last week. A majority of the Indian Army’s equipment is so old that it’s officially “vintage.”The U.S. has been determined to strengthen its alliance with India to counter China’s regional ambitions. But officials in New Delhi say it’s difficult to funnel money toward the military when they are struggling to improve citizens’ lives in the most basic of ways.Catch up: Several civilians were killed over the weekend during intense shelling along the disputed border between India and Pakistan. The violence came after Pakistan handed over a captured Indian pilot on Friday.Perspective: The author of a memoir about the conflict in Kashmir argues in an Op-Ed that India and Pakistan share responsibility for reducing the region to a ruin.In 2007, Amazon started spending to build a TV and film portfolio, and Mr. Bezos, its founder, became a  powerful presence on the red carpet. Eventually, he and the Hollywood insider Lauren Sanchez, pictured with him above, began an affair that splashed over The National Enquirer. Now, he has effectively ceded control of his narrative to two feuding figures who are prolonging the scandal’s news value: his A-list security consultant and Ms. Sanchez’s fame-hungry brother-manager. U.S.-China trade talks: An agreement that would roll back tariffs on both sides may do little to achieve the substantive changes to China’s economy that the Trump administration initially sought, according to people with knowledge of the talks.Awaiting a return to Caracas: Juan Guaidó plans to re-enter Venezuela today after leaving more than a week ago to rally support for his efforts to oust President Nicolás Maduro. Mr. Guaidó risks being arrested, but his absence has sapped the momentum of his opposition movement. Trump at CPAC: President Trump said on Saturday that he planned to issue an executive order that would help guarantee free speech at colleges and universities. He made the remarks at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference, and we fact-checked his speech.The 2020 election: John Hickenlooper, the former governor of Colorado known for being socially progressive and pro-business, today became the latest Democrat to launch a presidential campaign. No charges in Sacramento shooting: Two police officers who shot and killed an unarmed black man in his grandmother’s backyard last year will not face criminal prosecution. The death of Stephon Clark touched off waves of protests. “Leaving Neverland”: The first episode of HBO’s documentary about the allegations of child sexual abuse against Michael Jackson aired Sunday night. Here are key points from Part One. (Part Two is tonight, although it’s already available online.) Snapshot: Above, Carnival celebrations on Sunday at the Sambódromo, a purpose-built stadium in Rio de Janeiro where thousands of performers appear each year. What we’re reading: This essay in the London Review of Books. Michael Roston, an editor on the Science desk, writes: “‘Finally reached the end of the internet,’ goes a joke once told about being online too much. This article by Patricia Lockwood, the poet, memoirist and all-around interesting thinker, is kind of about an end of the internet. I’ll only ruin it if I try to say more.”Cook: Start the week with a bracing, spicy vegetarian mapo tofu.Watch: “Barry” and “Russian Doll” are among the new TV shows that try to re-instill basic lessons in human decency.See: Jasper Johns’s latest show, “Recent Paintings & Works on Paper,” at Matthew Marks Gallery in Manhattan, is optimistic, despite concluding with a room full of skeletons.Listen: Adia Victoria, a 32-year-old songwriter who grew up in South Carolina, likes to call herself a “modern blues woman.”Smarter Living: If you’re supporting a loved one who is a survivor of sexual abuse or assault, it’s best to simply listen, not to pressure them into telling their story. Let them know that you’re open to hearing whatever they want to share, and above all that you believe them.We also have guidance on becoming a “digital nomad,” earning a living while seeing the world.On Tuesday, the end of the women’s ready-to-wear season in Paris, the last of Karl Lagerfeld’s enormous sets for Chanel will be revealed — the final gesture of a man who shaped fashion as we know it. He died on Feb. 19.Though many designers have created dramatic shows — most notably Alexander McQueen, John Galliano and Thom Browne — none reached the extremes of Mr. Lagerfeld. He once imported (and then returned) a Swedish iceberg, had a rocket launch and created a sandy beach with real surf — all within the glass-roofed confines of the Grand Palais in Paris.Though I was never as big a fan of these fantasy moments as many of my peers (I believed the money could be better spent elsewhere, like on a charitable foundation), they were the markers of a time that is coming to a close, symbols of a vision that bridged the couture and Instagram eras.Get ready for the farewell hurrah. Given that Mr. Lagerfeld never did anything by half measures, it is bound to be a doozy.We end with the latest installment of the Times’s copy editing quiz. Because nothing says Monday morning like a grammar test.See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Vanessa Friedman, the chief fashion critic at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. Follow her on Twitter for live updates from this week’s show. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about what to expect as the special counsel, Robert Mueller, prepares to submit his report.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Kind of bean mentioned by Hannibal Lecter (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The New York Times has been publishing T, a fashion and design magazine, since 2004. @tmagazine has 796,000 followers on Instagram. Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Monday. Weather: Cloudy and chilly, with highs in the upper 30s. Tomorrow, a gusty barrage of snow, sleet and freezing rain — up to 3 inches of it.Alternate-side parking: In effect today, suspended tomorrow for Lincoln’s Birthday. A correction: On Friday, because of an editing error, we wrote that it would be suspended today. It is not — our apologies. Now move your car!Fewer than 100 days ago, the deal to bring Amazon to New York City seemed inevitable. Last week, it seemed almost on the brink of collapse.What happened?To get caught up, here’s a recap of events that led us to where we are now.Nov. 5: Word of the deal surfaces. Gov. Andrew Cuomo jokes that he would change his name to “Amazon Cuomo” to bring the company here.Nov. 12: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez tweets about her opposition to the plan.Nov. 13 An official deal is announced. The company, owned by Jeff Bezos, the richest man in the world, would get nearly $3 billion in public subsidies to expand here. Plus a helipad.Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio make it sound as if no other real government approval was needed.Critics mobilize.Nov. 14: An image of Mr. Bezos laughing as he holds bags of money in a flying helicopter appears on the front page of The New York Post. The headline is “Queens Ransom.”Nov. 15: The Post follows up with a story headlined “Why Amazon tech bros will ruin the NYC dating scene.”Dec. 12: Amazon executives testify at a City Council hearing and get berated by lawmakers.Jan. 30: At another City Council hearing, an Amazon executive says something that sounds like a veiled threat to pull out of the deal.Feb. 4: State Senator Michael Gianaris, a critic of the project, is selected for a state board that has veto power over the deal.Feb. 5: In a radio interview, Mr. Cuomo says, “I think if Amazon pulled out” it would be “a dramatic blow to not just the economy but also the reputation” of New York. If Amazon is “going somewhere else, the people will follow,” the governor added.Feb. 8: The Washington Post, citing “two people familiar with the company’s thinking,” reports that Amazon is considering withdrawing from New York.But The Times reports that “two people with direct knowledge of the company’s thinking said the article had gone too far and Amazon had no plans to back out.”Jail’s troubles are nothing new: The Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn has a checkered history.How the misery at the jail galvanized protesters and led to action.A pied-à-terre tax: New York lawmakers may be more receptive to it after the hedge fund billionaire Kenneth C. Griffin bought a penthouse for $238 million.Before her body was found in a suitcase, a young woman told her mother she feared for her safety.A mother is killed: A woman who had tried to help her mentally ill son for years was brutally murdered by him, the police said.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.Bad data about day care centers: Information on city websites is incomplete or inaccurate. [New York Post]Noose photos labeled “back-to-school necklaces” in a middle-school classroom on Long Island. People are mad. [News 12 Long Island] $1.4 million in raises: More than 200 women and people of color working at New Jersey Transit got salary increases under a new pay-equity law. [Wall Street Journal]Clothing inspired by tabloid newspapers. Who’s making fashion headlines? [Daily News and New York Post]Would Democrats let a colleague’s district disappear? Representative Ocasio-Cortez said her district could be heavily redrawn after the 2020 census. [The Intercept]“I think that it is not a good agreement for Nycha and for the city.” — Stanley Brezenoff, the departing interim chairman and chief executive of the New York City Housing Authority, on the recent deal between the city and federal housing officials.Not for cat people: The 143rd Westminster Dog Show’s Masters Obedience Championship at Pier 94. 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. [$35]Rare footage of the American dancer-choreographer Merce Cunningham at the Public Library for the Performing Arts. 6 p.m. [Free]A panel on the history of black businesses at the Brooklyn Historical Society. 6 p.m. [$5]Oskar Eustis, artistic director of the Public Theater and “Hamilton” producer, chats with Bill T. Jones at New York Live Arts. 7 p.m. [$10]— Elisha Brown Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Forty years have passed since Curtis Sliwa first put on a red jacket and beret and started patrolling New York City’s streets and subways with the vigilante group he founded, the Guardian Angels.A lot has changed. New York City got safer and gentrified. Mr. Sliwa got older and makes a living as a radio host.Some things haven’t changed. Mr. Sliwa still wears the red jacket and beret nearly every day.In honor of the group’s anniversary, a documentary called “Vigilante” is being rereleased this month. And a graphic novel is coming too.Also, for a limited time starting Wednesday, the group is selling clothing. The Guardian Angels partnered with a Manhattan clothing company on T-shirts ($40), sweatshirts ($80), hats ($40) and a set of three enameled pins ($12).Some apparel has the group’s logo. Some has the word “vigilante.” A quarter of the revenue will go to the Guardian Angels, who do less patrolling and more community organizing these days.But who will buy it? In today’s New York the concerns are more about too much policing, rather than a lack of it. And if you’re on the A train wearing a hat that says “vigilante,” what kind of message does that send?Michael Casarella, the chief executive of Barking Irons, the clothing company partnering on the apparel, said in an email, “The Guardian Angels stand for taking an active role in your community, big or small. They were fiercely egalitarian and democratic when it came to gender, creed, and background.”The lasting message of the organization, he said, “was and always has been: Don’t be a passive bystander. Activism begins with taking a stand.”As for the word “vigilante” on the apparel, Mr. Casarella said, “People are going to bring their associations to a word no matter what.”He added: “Vigilante, in this context, is about overcoming the ways people will diminish and dismiss what they do not understand.”On Friday evening, I ran into Mr. Sliwa on the train. He was wearing his trademark jacket and beret. I asked him about the vigilante slogan and the message it might send. He said the root of the word is “vigilance,” and that’s something that never goes out of style.It’s Monday — make a statement.Dear Diary:I was headed to work on a downtown No. 1. I was standing in the middle of the car.At 125th Street, a woman in the seat in front of me turned to the man sitting next to her.“I loved that book,” she said.He turned to her and smiled. They began to talk about the book and about the movie adaptation. She pulled a book out of her bag to show him what she was reading.I wondered whether they knew each other. Then they shook hands and introduced themselves. I checked their left hands. No rings.The train continued on. By now, they were laughing. Their shoulders were touching. It was like the beginning to a romantic comedy, a real-life meet-cute.We got to 72nd Street, and they were still chatting away. Would this be the last time they spoke?The train approached 59th Street.“Maybe I could give you my number and we can talk some more?” the man said.They exchanged phones, saving each other’s contact information.I got off at 50th Street. It was no longer just a regular day.— Alliana SemjenNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Vivian Wang[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — New York lawmakers on Thursday passed a bill to outlaw “revenge porn,” a practice that victims say can alter their lives as drastically as any other form of abuse, but from which there are few of the same protections.The bill’s passage was long awaited, and for many victims, long overdue.In an era of social media ubiquity and the permanence of the internet, revenge porn, the nonconsensual sharing of sexually explicit photos or videos, has emerged as an increasingly potent weapon. The images can follow victims for years, turning up when employers or romantic partners search for their names on the internet.Forty-one states have already outlawed revenge porn, as have Washington, D.C., New York City and several counties, including Nassau County.But in New York, victims told of years of helplessness. Prosecutors could not charge offenders for a practice that was not illegal, and judges turned down appeals for help on the grounds of free speech, even as other states moved to shore up protections.“I went to the police, and they told me there was nothing they could do. I went to Family Court, and the judge there told me that I had a First Amendment problem,” said Carrie Goldberg, a victims’ rights lawyer who was in Albany for the bill’s passage.She said she had started her firm after being the victim of revenge porn herself. Her harasser sent her emails containing explicit photos of herself and told her that he had blind copied her colleagues on the message, she said.“My clients describe it as an inescapable nightmare, and it is,” Ms. Goldberg said.In a sign of how quickly the landscape has changed, when New York’s bill was first introduced five years ago, it was a trailblazer; only a handful of other states had criminalized revenge porn. By the time the bill finally passed the State Legislature on Thursday, New York was a laggard.Under the new state proposal, which Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has said he supports, offenders could be punished by up to one year in jail.The law would also allow victims to sue the person who had shared the revenge porn, which about a dozen other states permit. And it would be the first in the nation to allow judges to order websites or social media platforms — in addition to the original poster — to take down the photos or videos.The push to end revenge porn comes amid twin movements across the country: growing acknowledgment of sexual harassment and abuse, and an emerging conversation about what government’s role should be in regulating social media.While some of the highest-profile instances of sexual images as blackmail or revenge have involved the rich and famous — Jeff Bezos, Jennifer Lawrence and Rihanna for example — it has affected millions of people, from middle school students to Marines. As many as 10 million Americans have been victims of revenge porn, according to the Data and Society Research Institute, a think tank.“Revenge porn is not infrequent, nor is it just a celebrity issue,” said Senator Monica R. Martinez, a Long Island Democrat and one of the bill’s sponsors. “Our laws have yet to catch up with technology.”The bill had passed the Democrat-dominated Assembly last year but was opposed by technology companies and business groups, which worried that they could be held liable for content shared on their platforms.The proposal died in the Republican-controlled Senate. But Democrats won the Senate in November, paving the way for the bill’s passage.The bill would follow federal law in granting social media platforms and other websites some immunity from financial liability, holding only the person who posted the media responsible. Websites would still be required to take down any material if ordered by a judge.Minors would also be held responsible under the law, but they would appear before a Family Court judge, Ms. Martinez said. Some critics had worried that the law could send teenagers to jail.Most major social media platforms already have policies in place around revenge porn. But the bill would add an extra layer of accountability, said Lindsey Song, a lawyer with Sanctuary for Families, a group that advocates for survivors of gender-based violence.“Some of these major companies just have so much content,” she said. “Sometimes, unfortunately, victims of domestic violence and trafficking just don’t get to be a priority.”On Thursday, the Internet Association, an industry group that represents tech giants including Google, Twitter, Facebook and Snapchat, said it supported criminalizing revenge porn but still expressed concerns with the bill.“While the industry continues to have reservations about the bill, it is important for New York State” to pass the bill “so that victims of these horrific actions will have the ability to hold bad actors to account,” John Olsen, the association’s director of state government affairs for the Northeast region, said in a statement.The statement did not specify what those reservations were.Ms. Goldberg celebrated the bill’s passage on Thursday, her voice often shaking, even as she lamented the years in which she and countless others had suffered from its delay.“I’ve prepared to give this speech five times over five years,” she said at a news conference promoting the bill. “Sexual privacy is just a fundamental right.”Follow Vivian Wang on Twitter: @vwang3Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. President Trump faces tests of his political survival, the U.S. government shutdown has become the country’s longest in history, and the Greek prime minister calls for a confidence vote. Here’s the latest: The shift of power in Congress and news reports are combining to confront President Trump with the prospect of a political war for survival “that may make the still-unresolved partial government shutdown pale by comparison,” our chief White House correspondent writes.News reports: A Times report detailed how, after Mr. Trump fired James Comey as F.B.I. director, the bureau became so concerned by the president’s behavior that investigators took the aggressive step of opening a counterintelligence inquiry into whether he had been working on behalf of Russia. That inquiry was taken over by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, when he was appointed.And The Washington Post first reported that the president had gone to great lengths to conceal his conversations with President Vladimir Putin of Russia over the past two years. Current and former officials told our reporters that this practice has caused anxiety within Mr. Trump’s own administration.Congress: Democrats in the House of Representatives might move to subpoena interpreters present at the meetings. And on Tuesday, they will grill former Attorney General William Barr, who has been nominated by Mr. Trump to assume his old office, about his approach to the special counsel. Next month, they’ll question Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, and they cautioned Mr. Trump against any attempt to influence or discourage his testimony. The response: Mr. Trump attacked the F.B.I. and its former top officials on Twitter over news of the counterintelligence investigation and denied The Post’s report.The partial shutdown is now the longest-ever gap in American government funding, surpassing the previous record of 21 days under the Clinton administration.President Trump is still digging in on his demand for money for a wall at the southern border, though he has backed away from declaring a national emergency to build one — which has been seen as the only way out of the impasse with House Democrats. Meanwhile, a new caravan of migrants is forming in Honduras and promises to further charge the debate.Impact: Here’s a visual look at the shutdown’s far-reaching consequences for the 800,000 federal workers who are going without pay.Another angle: The British Parliament is all but certain to vote down Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan on Tuesday, leaving the country’s withdrawal from the E.U. mired in uncertainty. Our journalists examine how the crises afflicting two venerable, historic democracies can affect the whole world. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras of Greece called for a confidence vote after a coalition partner on the right quit over a proposed pact on Macedonia’s name.What happened: Days ago, Macedonian lawmakers agreed to officially change their country’s name to the Republic of North Macedonia, in order to end a long-running dispute with Greece and open the door for the small Balkan nation’s membership in NATO and the E.U. But the deal infuriated the Greek defense minister, prompting him to resign. History: Greece has long effectively blocked Macedonia from NATO, insisting that Macedonians were a Hellenistic people and therefore the name could not be claimed by the Slavic people living in the country today. Many Greeks believe that the new name implies claims to Greek territory, because Greece has a northern region named Macedonia.What’s next? The confidence vote is expected to be held this week, after two days of debate from Tuesday morning.  The deal on the name could go before the Greek Parliament for approval as soon as this month. Boulogne-sur-Mer, France’s largest fishing port, has been spooked by a surge in attempted and even successful thefts of fishing boats. The culprits are migrant smugglers. They are increasingly secreting migrants, mainly Iranians who can afford the high costs, across the English Channel to Britain in small vessels, some of them stolen. Numbers: Last year, there were 78 crossings and attempts to cross the Channel, involving a total of about 500 migrants — 10 times as many as in 2017. More than half made it across. No one is known to have died so far, but there is fear that a fatality is inevitable. Impact: The relatively small numbers notwithstanding, headlines and anti-immigration politicians in Britain are calling it a crisis. Some French fishermen are vowing to sit up all night in their boats, cradling their guns. Huawei: The Chinese telecommunications giant fired an employee who was arrested in Poland on charges of spying for Beijing, the latest diplomatic tangle for the company after the arrest of its chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, in Canada last year.Poland: The left-leaning mayor of Gdansk was stabbed in the heart on Sunday night while he spoke at a fund-raiser by an assailant with political grievances, officials said.Afghanistan: Dozens of boys are imprisoned in Kabul as national security threats, many of them accused of trying to become suicide bombers. What to do with them when they finish their sentences is a conundrum for the authorities.Nissan: In 1991, the Japanese automaker created a small batch of the quirky Figaro model and never even exported it out of the country. But today, it enjoys immense popularity in Britain.Paris: Four people were killed in a powerful explosion at a bakery that is believed to have been caused by a gas leak.Syria: The U.S. military started withdrawing some equipment as part of President Trump’s order to wind down America’s presence there, amid growing confusion and mixed signals over the pullout.Iran: Senior Pentagon officials are afraid that President Trump’s hawkish national security adviser, John Bolton, could precipitate a conflict with Iran at a time when Mr. Trump is losing leverage in the Middle East.Saudi Arabia: The young Saudi woman who fled her family and spent a week lobbying for her freedom from Bangkok’s international airport arrived safely in Canada, where she was granted asylum. Who is MacKenzie Bezos? A novelist who, as the wife of Jeff Bezos, played an integral part in getting Amazon started. And now, after 25 years of marriage, she could be awarded one of the largest divorce settlements to date.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Start the week with a comforting bowl of Tuscan farro soup.How to be a writer: There’s no shortage of advice from famous authors, from J.K. Rowling to William Faulkner.Never miss another supermoon. Or solar eclipse, or meteor shower. Sync your calendar with the solar system.On Wall Street, it’s “earnings season.”Before your eyes glaze over, here’s what that means — and why it’s more interesting than usual.We’re about to see how corporate America did in the past three months.It’s the first chance for investors to hear from chief executives since the market went haywire in December. A big reason for that sell-off was concern about the economy and corporate profits.In the “preseason,” Apple warned that fewer people in China were buying iPhones than it would like, and American Airlines said it wasn’t getting as much revenue from every passenger as it wanted.Such details help gauge the health of the economy, and that’s where the trouble can begin. If too many chief executives start to warn about problems ahead, investors could see their worst fears confirmed — and stocks could start to fall again.Maybe don’t check your 401(k) until this is over.Mohammed Hadi, our business news director, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. President Trump’s impending political war, China’s aggressive ambitions in Africa, and Nissan’s unexpected popularity in Britain. Here’s the latest: The shift of power in Congress and news reports are combining to confront President Trump with the prospect of a protracted and intense political war for survival “that may make the still-unresolved partial government shutdown pale by comparison,” writes our chief White House correspondent.News reports: A Times report detailed how, after Mr. Trump fired James Comey as F.B.I. director, the bureau became so concerned by the president’s behavior that they took the aggressive step of opening a counterintelligence inquiry into whether he had been working on behalf of Russia.And The Washington Post reported that the president had taken extensive steps to conceal his conversations with Russia’s President Vladimir Putin over the past two years.Congress: Democrats in the House will, on Tuesday, grill former Attorney General William Barr, who has been nominated by Mr. Trump to assume his old office, about his approach to the special counsel, Robert Mueller. Next month, they’ll question Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen.The response: Mr. Trump attacked the F.B.I. and its former top officials on Twitter over news of the investigation and denied The Post’s report.The partial shutdown is now the longest ever gap in American government funding, surpassing the previous record of 21 days under the Clinton administration in 1995.President Trump is still digging in on his demand for money for a wall at the southern border, though he has backed away from declaring a national emergency. House Democrats refuse to accede.Impact: Here’s a visual look at the shutdown’s far-reaching consequences for the 800,000 federal workers who are going without pay.The roots: Decisions made in the 1970s helped lay the groundwork for today’s dysfunction.Another angle: The British Parliament is all but certain to vote down Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan on Tuesday, leaving the country’s withdrawal from the E.U. mired in uncertainty. Our journalists examine how the crises afflicting two venerable, historic democracies can impact the whole world. China’s investments in Africa are central to President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road initiative. The Trump administration sees it as an aggressive debt-trap scheme aimed at extending Beijing’s political influence around the world.Case study: In 2016, an American consortium of oil and gas executives from General Electric put in a bid to build a $4 billion oil refinery in Uganda that could be the largest in East Africa. It faced long odds against the competition, two Chinese energy companies with deep pockets, Beijing’s support and significant pull with the Ugandan government.Why it matters: The Ugandan case demonstrates the difficulties western governments face as they try to push back against China. In October, the Trump administration set aside $60 billion in financing for global projects — though that is still a fraction of what Beijing has pledged to spend.In Kabul, Afghanistan, dozens of boys are held at a juvenile detention center as national security threats, charged with planting, carrying or making bombs and trying to become suicide bombers.The Times, which was granted exclusive access to the prison a few months ago, found that many bear deep cuts and bruises — some self-inflicted, others from the bombs they are said to have detonated. None admit the full range of the crimes they’re accused of.“The Taliban made me fight for them,” said one. “The local police beat me to force me to confess,” said another.The problem: So far, counseling the boys to steer them away from extremism hasn’t seemed to work. So what are the authorities to do with them at the end of their sentences, when their added years could enable them to cause worse mayhem? Huawei: The Chinese telecommunications giant fired an employee who was arrested in Poland on charges of spying for Beijing, the latest diplomatic tangle for the company after the arrest of its chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, in Canada.Syria: The U.S. military started withdrawing some equipment from the conflict as part of President Trump’s order to wind down America’s presence there, amid growing confusion and mixed signals over the pullout.Saudi Arabia: The young Saudi woman who fled from her family and spent a week lobbying for her freedom from Bangkok’s international airport arrived safely in Canada, where she was granted asylum. Her case has brought the status of Saudi women and the difficulties of escaping the kingdom into sharp focus.From Opinion: U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is in Saudi Arabia to meet with the crown prince and discuss the killing of the dissident Jamal Khashoggi. A Saudi woman living in Belgium argues that Mr. Pompeo should also bring up the fate of jailed female political prisoners — like her own sister.Nissan: In 1991, the Japanese automaker created a small batch of the quirky Figaro model and never even exported it out of the country. But today, it enjoys immense popularity in Britain.Indonesia: A woman who recorded her boss’s lewd phone call was fired and eventually jailed, while his career flourished. The case, whose final appeal is before the Supreme Court, has become a very public example of the country’s lack of sexual harassment protection for women.Who is MacKenzie Bezos? A novelist who, as the wife of Jeff Bezos, played an integral part in getting Amazon started. And now, after 25 years of marriage, she could be awarded one of the largest divorce settlements to date.SpaceX: Elon Musk’s rocket company is cutting 10 percent of its work force in what the company said was preparation for the “extraordinary challenges ahead.” With its remaining 6,000 workers, the company plans to move forward to create space-based internet and launch a capsule to carry NASA astronauts to the International Space Station.Beauty of the beasts: The extravagant splendor in the animal kingdom is pushing biologists to rethink Darwin’s theory of evolution.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Start the week with a comforting bowl of Tuscan farro soup.How to be writer? There’s no shortage of advice from famous writers, from J.K. Rowling to William Faulkner.Never miss another super moon. Or solar eclipse, or meteor shower. Sync your calendar with the solar system.On Wall Street, it’s “earnings season.”Before your eyes glaze over, here’s what that means — and why it’s more interesting than usual.We’re about to see how corporate America did in the past three months.It’s the first chance for investors to hear from chief executives since the market went haywire in December. A big reason for that sell-off was concern about the economy and corporate profits.In the “preseason,” Apple warned that fewer people in China were buying iPhones than it would like, and American Airlines said it wasn’t getting as much revenue from every passenger as it wanted.Such details help gauge the health of the economy, and that’s where the trouble can begin. If too many chief executives start to warn about problems ahead, investors could see their worst fears confirmed — and stocks could start to fall again.Maybe don’t check your 401(k) until this is over.Mohammed Hadi, our business news director, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonTwo Fridays ago, Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, was in Los Angeles, one of his homes away from home.He started the day at Nate and Al’s, the Beverly Hills delicatessen where he occasionally dines with friends, including Larry King and Steve Tisch, the co-owner of the Giants. Later that day, he was supposed to play golf with Al Michaels, the longtime host of “Sunday Night Football.”Kraft never made it to the first tee at the Bel-Air Country Club. During the morning he received word that the police 2,600 miles away in Florida were charging him with two counts of soliciting a prostitute at a massage parlor in Jupiter. Since then, authorities have revealed that Kraft is one of hundreds of men facing solicitation charges as part of a case that also encompasses suspected human trafficking in South Florida.[Read more: Behind Illicit Massage Parlors Lie a Vast Crime Network and Modern Indentured Servitude]Suddenly, Kraft’s off-season, and perhaps his status as one of the most influential N.F.L. owners, had been turned upside down.It is telling that he received the news while in Los Angeles, the capital of the entertainment industry. In the quarter-century since he bought the Patriots, Kraft has been at the center of countless business decisions affecting the league, from labor agreements to franchise sales to the commissioner’s compensation. But Kraft has also left his mark by forming friendships with the leaders of the media companies that pay billions of dollars to televise N.F.L. games.Those contracts account for about half of the N.F.L.’s estimated $14 billion annual revenue. As the chairman of the league’s media committee, Kraft has become the N.F.L.’s seemingly indispensable owner, as anyone who holds that position usually is, and he has been expert at getting networks like CBS and Fox to pay previously unimaginable rights fees, and making them feel as if they were lucky to do so.“He is a clever negotiator,” said David Hill, the former chairman of Fox Sports. “He could look at what the broadcaster needed and gauge what they felt they could pay but still leave something on the table so you don’t feel like you were gouged.”Now Kraft may have compromised his stature within that most exclusive of American business clubs. In addition to any league punishment, he faces up to one year in jail, a $5,000 fine and 100 hours of community service — though since this would be a first-time offense, prosecutors said, he is unlikely to spend any time behind bars if convicted.On Feb. 25, Kraft pleaded not guilty to the misdemeanor charges. A date in court, where he is likely to be represented by his lawyer, is scheduled for March 27.Kraft’s behavior has come under scrutiny before. He has admitted to meddling in football decisions and alienating his coaches in his early years of owning the Patriots. In 2008, he apologized after his team was fined $250,000 and lost a first-round draft pick because of allegations in 2007 that the Patriots videotaped their opponent’s offensive or defensive signals. Coach Bill Belichick was fined $500,000. In 2013, Kraft claimed he was “duped” by Aaron Hernandez, the Patriots tight end who was convicted of murder and later killed himself in prison.In ownership circles, Kraft is known to act as a kind of shadow commissioner, forming close relationships with sponsors, vendors, media companies and even the N.F.L. Players Association, and pursuing back-channel communications that can sometimes circumvent his fellow owners and league officials.His influence, though, has limits. Many owners tolerate Kraft’s freelancing because he gets results and tries to keep other owners in the loop. But their tolerance runs thin when his team is accused of wrongdoing, as happened in the Spygate scandal and in 2015, when the Patriots were accused of deflating footballs before the A.F.C. championship game. In those cases, owners were not unhappy when the commissioner penalized the team.Numerous former and current league executives and Kraft’s ownership brethren declined to comment on the record for this article, as did Kraft. Even privately, many of them were reluctant to criticize him for the solicitation charges, which they consider a personal matter.It is possible, though, that the arrest could diminish Kraft’s standing among the owners just as his skill sets and relationships are needed.The league’s television contracts are up for renewal in two years, and the N.F.L. would like new players like Amazon to jump into the fray. Negotiations are likely to be complicated as the league and networks figure out how to value rights for streaming and other new technology. Kraft lost a major ally in Leslie Moonves, his longtime friend, who was forced to step down as chief executive of CBS in September after more than a dozen women accused him of sexual misconduct.If Kraft is concerned about his own allegations, he is not showing it. While he has not spoken publicly about the charges, which the police said stem from video recordings of him, Kraft has been seen in public, including at a pre-Oscars brunch on Feb. 23 where he was photographed with Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder and chief executive.When Kraft returned to Boston the next day, he was spotted hugging Patriots quarterback Tom Brady after they got off a private jet.Amid the solicitation case in Florida, it is unclear how involved Kraft will be in league business in the coming months. The N.F.L. is preparing not only for talks with television networks but also for negotiations with the players’ union, whose contract expires at the end of next season. Kraft also sits on the finance and compensation committees, and the management council, which represents the league in labor talks.Kraft can be an affable but cunning negotiator, and both his business and people skills were hard to miss in 2011 during negotiations over the collective bargaining agreement. Several owners pushed the league to take a hard line and exploit their leverage over the players’ union after a court ruling in their favor, but Kraft was among a contingent of owners leading negotiations in Washington who saw an opening to push the talks across the finish line. While Kraft shuttled back and forth to Boston, where his wife, Myra, was dying of ovarian cancer, he maintained a direct line of communication with leaders of the players’ union.After the two sides reached a deal, Jeff Saturday, a member of the union’s executive committee, thanked Kraft. “Without him, this deal does not get done,” he said at the time.ESPN, where Saturday works, said he was not available for an interview. But nearly all of Kraft’s associates contacted for this article said Kraft was a careful listener who asked questions and had a knack for proposing solutions. While he does have a temper, they said, he rarely loses it.Kraft has spoken often about the need to put league matters over personal ones. In November 2017, he was interviewed with his oldest son, Jonathan, onstage at a sports industry conference in New York. In a thinly veiled criticism of Jerry Jones, the Cowboys’ owner, Kraft urged owners to act as partners and not perceive themselves as “bigger than the league itself.” Jones had threatened to sue Kraft and other owners who wanted to extend Commissioner Roger Goodell’s contract.“It’s more important,” Kraft said, “that the people running the league do the right thing for the league than for any one franchise.”Mark Leibovich contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike Isaac and Kate CongerSAN FRANCISCO — When Logan Green, chief executive of the ride-hailing service Lyft, was asked which tech leaders he admired, he pointed to three men who had built their companies ruthlessly: Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos.“A lot of other Silicon Valley companies are very scared to get their hands dirty with operations,” Mr. Green said in a 2017 interview with The New York Times, adding that he wanted to emulate the take-no-prisoners methods of Mr. Musk, Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Bezos.The problem for Mr. Green is that Lyft seems very nice. Its app is pink. Its cars were once adorned with fuzzy bubblegum-colored mustaches. Its drivers have a reputation for being friendly. And while Lyft has racked up more than one billion rides and become a strong No. 2 to Uber in the United States and Canada, it has not shaken off its cuddly image.Now Mr. Green, 35, must show that Lyft can be as assertive as an Amazon or a Facebook. He and Uber are locked in a race to take their companies public: Both filed papers in December to list on the stock market in the coming months. The offerings — the first for any ride-hailing firm — are likely to create a bonanza of riches in Silicon Valley and set the stage for listings of other highly valued tech start-ups, including Slack and Pinterest.The pressure is on Mr. Green to get the jump on Uber. (Both offerings have been stalled because the government shutdown, which ended Friday, prevented the Securities and Exchange Commission from reviewing their filings.) Lyft, which was last privately valued at $15.1 billion, is tiny compared with its rival and could be overshadowed if Uber debuts first. Uber could go public at a $120 billion valuation.For Mr. Green, this means he may have to give up some up his reserve and step into a more public role. While Lyft’s more gregarious president, John Zimmer, his No. 2 for the last 12 years, has frequently handled the public-facing side of the business, Mr. Green would rather speak at staff meetings than at tech conferences. Colleagues describe him as reserved.In a 2017 interview, Mr. Zimmer said Mr. Green was often misunderstood because of his quiet demeanor. “He is, like, extremely competitive,” Mr. Zimmer, now 34, said. “He has been an activist.”Lyft declined to make Mr. Green or Mr. Zimmer available for new interviews, citing the quiet period before an initial public offering. In a statement, the chief operating officer, Jon McNeill, described them as “cutthroat missionaries in service of creating positive change.”One of the tech leaders Mr. Green cited as inspiration, Mr. Musk, recommended against taking Lyft public.“The current system makes long-term value creation and product innovation difficult,” Mr. Musk, chief executive of Tesla, wrote in an email last week. “It insists on quarter-by-quarter results or punishes companies severely. This is particularly bad for companies that are high growth and are valued on potential, like Lyft (or Tesla).” (The S.E.C. fined Mr. Musk  last year for a tweet about taking Tesla private.)Mr. Green, who was born and raised in Culver City, Calif., graduated from the University of California, Santa Barbara, in 2006 with a degree in business economics. He then worked as the university’s sustainability coordinator, poring over alternatives to the gas-guzzling one-car-per-owner model. He was also on the board of the Santa Barbara Metropolitan Transit District, a position that gave him insight into municipal transportation.While visiting Zimbabwe on vacation during his 20s, Mr. Green said in the 2017 interview, he was inspired by Zimbabweans who had created makeshift services to fill every seat in car pools, saving passengers money and taking cars off the road.So in 2007, Mr. Green started Zimride in Santa Barbara, Calif., to provide long-distance car-pool rides to college students by matching them with other students who were driving.Mr. Zimmer, then working at Lehman Brothers, noticed posts about the start-up on Facebook from John Siegel, whom he had met while studying abroad and who had attended middle school with Mr. Green.“John didn’t have this technical or programming background, but he was this really impressive guy,” Mr. Siegel said. “I thought they could work together well.”Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer, who remained in New York, embarked on what Mr. Zimmer called a “long-distance relationship,” working together over Skype. In 2008, they moved to a two-bedroom apartment in Palo Alto, Calif. Neither drew a salary in the first three years of building Zimride, and each contract they sold to a college was celebrated with a trip to Ikea for Swedish meatballs, Mr. Zimmer said.In 2011, Zimride raised $6 million. But as a web service, it was caught flat-footed by the rise of smartphones and mobile apps. In 2012, Mr. Green decided to spin out of Zimride a mobile, peer-to-peer ride-hailing service, calling it Lyft.Instead of just pairing students for long-distance rides, Lyft would put drivers together with riders on public streets, in real time. Mr. Zimmer came up with the idea to emblazon the cars with pink mustaches; Mr. Green encouraged passengers to greet their drivers with a fist bump, to keep the community feeling of Zimride.At the time, ride-hailing wasn’t legal, and only licensed drivers could pick up passengers on public streets. Ann Miura-Ko, a partner at the venture capital firm Floodgate, who had invested in Zimride and sits on Lyft’s board, recalled that some board members had been doubtful about the change — but that Mr. Green had been confident.“Someone asked, ‘Will this really work?’ And he wasn’t just sure, he was positive,” she said.But Mr. Green didn’t reckon with one issue: Uber. At the time, Uber, run by Travis Kalanick, had positioned itself as a luxury service for the wealthy that used only licensed drivers, unlike Lyft’s lower-cost service. In 2013, Uber published a white paper outlining the risks of peer-to-peer ride-hailing, a way to elbow Lyft out of the market.“They were trying to get the whole category shut down behind the scenes,” Mr. Green said. “They didn’t want competition.”Uber officials met with California regulators about the matter. As for Mr. Green, several current and former regulators and lawmakers who oversee ride-sharing in California said they had never worked with him, because Mr. Zimmer was often the one who communicated with officials.“Truth be told, I’ve never heard of him,” said Aaron Peskin, a San Francisco supervisor who called for crackdowns on Uber and Lyft in their early years and negotiated a new per-ride tax with Uber and Lyft last summer.Mr. Kalanick eventually moved Uber into non-luxury ride-sharing with no licensed drivers, the same as Lyft. He and Mr. Green quickly became bitter rivals. When Mr. Green was set to introduce Lyft’s car-pooling product in 2014, Uber announced the same service first.That same year, Uber considered buying Lyft. Over dinner at Mr. Kalanick’s home in San Francisco, the Uber chief laughed at Mr. Zimmer’s high asking price. No deal was struck.An Uber spokesman declined to comment. A spokesman for Mr. Kalanick didn’t return a request for comment.While Mr. Kalanick went on to raise billions of dollars in funding for Uber, Mr. Green relied on Mr. Zimmer’s Wall Street knowledge and showman personality to garner investments from venture capitalists and others. In total, Lyft has raised close to $5.1 billion, compared with Uber’s roughly $14 billion in equity.In 2017, Mr. Kalanick was ousted from Uber after a series of scandals. Mr. Green seized the moment, billing Lyft as a kinder, gentler network. Ridership surged, with Lyft taking a share of up to 35 percent in some American cities.More recently, Lyft has ventured into self-driving cars, offering autonomous rides in Las Vegas. It also acquired Motivate, the largest bike-share operator in the United States, giving Lyft a dominant position in an emerging transportation market.In the 2017 interview, Mr. Green said he was far from done.“As an entrepreneur, you always kind of want what you’re pitching to sound somewhat off the wall,” he said. “You’re trying to pitch the future that doesn’t exist, and you want it to be — it needs to be — a little bit of a stretch.”Follow Mike Isaac and Kate Conger on Twitter: @mikeisaac and @kateconger.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump might keep some tariffs on Chinese goods even if Beijing and Washington reach a trade agreement, he told the NYT yesterday, after delegates from both countries wrapped up another round of negotiations.“Without the tariffs, we wouldn’t be talking,” he said in an interview.How were the discussions? According to Mr. Trump’s posts on Twitter, they went well, “with good intent and spirit on both sides.” He hosted the negotiators in the Oval Office and suggested that President Xi Jinping of China was willing to welcome more American companies and to buy more American products — including five million tons of soybeans. The Chinese representatives, led by the American-educated vice premier, Liu He, said that the two sides had made “important progress” and had “candid, specific and fruitful” talks. Robert Lighthizer, the top American trade negotiator, was less sanguine. “We did not come off the rails,” he said. “That’s significant.”What’s next? The two sides hope to reach an agreement by early March, before Mr. Trump plans to increase tariffs after a 90-day truce. Mr. Lighthizer and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will go to Beijing after the Chinese New Year holiday this month to prepare for  talks between the two presidents. Mr. Trump said that summit meeting would happen “in the near future” and that it would address “some of the long standing and more difficult points.” According to Myron Brilliant, the head of international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “we are in the fifth inning of a nine-inning game.” He also used another sports analogy to describe the negotiations:I would now say we are at halftime of the Super Bowl of trade relations.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Facebook’s 35,000 employees got a reminder this week of Apple’s power over their day-to-day routines. So did workers at Google.After Facebook and Google ran afoul of Apple’s rules for distributing apps, Apple hit back by blocking the two Silicon Valley giants from using the internal apps and updates that run on iPhone software.Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, told the NYT that the offending app had not been a secret and had operated with users’ consent. Apple eventually restored access for both Facebook and Google, but its point had been made: Cross us at your peril.The tension with Apple was not Facebook’s only concern.• The social network, in a collaboration with Twitter, said that other countries appeared to be following the Russian playbook for using social media to disseminate propaganda and disinformation. One campaign, from Iran, touched on the conflict in Syria and conspiracy theories about the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Facebook said it had removed 783 pages, groups and accounts with ties to Iran, while Twitter said it had taken down more than 2,000 accounts.• Facebook, already being investigated by the authorities in Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York, is also said to be the target of several more inquiries, including in Connecticut, Illinois and Pennsylvania, over its mishandling of user data.Deutsche has been in a lot of trouble for a very long time. Now, it’s looking increasingly probable that the German government will step in to combine it with its smaller, but also struggling competitor, Commerzbank.Deutsche reported its first full-year net profit since 2014 today but still failed to meet analysts’ expectations. Its fourth quarter showed continued weakness.The bank has lurched through various failed restructuring efforts, has been hit with fine after fine and was recently raided by prosecutors pursuing a money-laundering investigation. Its stock price has more than halved in the past year. If it is unable to recover on its own, it is thought a merger with Commerzbank may occur by midyear.But that may not be wise, writes Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg:The deal looks like the option of last resort. Combining two of Europe’s most inefficient banks to create an even bigger supertanker would require tens of thousands of job cuts and a risky (read costly) integration to stand a chance of working.The Labor Department will release its monthly estimate of hiring and unemployment at 8:30 a.m. But there’s even more uncertainty than usual, writes the NYT’s Ben Casselman. Here’s what to look for:Crucial time: The United States’ decade-long expansion could be nearing its end, and the partial government shutdown has added to those fears. Not all the effects will show up in the jobs data, but they will make the report unusually hard to interpret.Potential impact: There is one place the shutdown will probably show up: the jobless rate. Unemployment could go up by one- or two-tenths of a percentage point.Solid foundation: The job market is strong, however. Claims for unemployment insurance recently hit a nearly 50-year low, and paychecks are growing.Investors looked to earnings reports yesterday from two bellwethers of the U.S. economy: Amazon and General Electric. Both seem to be struggling with growing pains.Stiff competition: The latest quarterly results suggested that Amazon’s retail business not only faced more competition, it was also maturing, as growth slowed from its usual breakneck pace. But the company compensated by expanding its highly profitable cloud and advertising businesses. Its revenue guidance fell short of expectations, sending shares down sharply in after-hours trading.Seeking a turnaround: G.E.’s fourth-quarter results pointed to the depth of the company’s challenges, despite a strong performance by the company’s jet engine business. G.E. made no forecast for what its profit and revenue would look like this year, and its chief executive, Lawrence Culp, said that 2019 was “still very much a work in progress.” The company also said that it had reached a $1.5 billion settlement in an investigation of its role in the 2008 financial crisis, reassuring investors.More earnings news: Nintendo shares dropped more than 9.3 percent after it cut its full-year target for sales of its Switch video game console.Intel named its interim chief executive, Robert Swan, as its permanent leader, ending a seven-month search. (NYT)Symantec said its chief financial officer, Nicholas Noviello, planned to step down in the coming months to pursue other opportunities. (FT)John Brumby, a former Australian lawmaker, retired from the board of the Australian subsidiary of Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant. (FT)Deals• Blackstone and Apollo, two of the biggest private equity firms, recorded sharp declines in profit in the fourth quarter of 2018 after investments were hit by rocky markets. (FT)• Seeking to narrow its focus to consumer appliances, Electrolux plans to spin off a unit that supplies restaurants and hotels with food, beverages and equipment. (FT)• Blackstone said it would buy a controlling stake in Tallgrass Energy, a midstream energy company, for $3.3 billion. (Reuters)Tech• Jeff Bezos’s space venture, Blue Origin, reached a deal with Telesat of Canada to launch part of a satellite constellation intended to provide faster internet access. (Reuters)• New e-commerce rules in India caused widespread disruption on Amazon’s website there. (Reuters)• Elon Musk blamed layoffs at SpaceX on the company’s “two absolutely insane projects.” (CNBC)• Mark Zuckerberg added $6.2 billion to his net worth after Facebook posted revenue that beat Wall Street estimates, sending its shares soaring. (Bloomberg)Politics & Policy• President Trump said in an exclusive interview with the NYT that he would proceed with a border wall regardless of the result of talks with lawmakers and dismissed any suggestions of wrongdoing in the investigations that have ensnared his associates. (NYT)• The Republican-led Senate voted 68 to 23 to advance legislation that strongly opposes President Trump’s withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Syria and Afghanistan. (NYT)• President Trump signed an executive order intended to funnel more federal funding into infrastructure projects that employ American workers. (NYT)• Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the Senate majority leader, called Democratic legislation that aims to clear obstacles to voting and to make Election Day a federal holiday a “power grab.” (NYT)• Mr. Trump is said to be considering Herman Cain, the former pizza company executive and Republican presidential candidate, for a seat on the Federal Reserve Board. (Bloomberg)• Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, wants a 2 percent tax on household wealth exceeding $50 million, and a 3 percent tax for those with more than $1 billion. Here’s how the plan from the presidential hopeful would work. (Bloomberg)• Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has his own plan to subject billionaires to a 77 percent estate tax. Here’s how much Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates and Warren Buffett would have to pay. (CNBC)Best of the Rest• Fears that supply chains will be severely disrupted in the event of a no-deal Brexit are leading to shortages of food and medicines in Britain. (Reuters)• Nearly a third of British companies could move their operations abroad because of Brexit, according to a recent survey. (BBC)• The timing of Italy’s recession could not be worse: Europe is at an economic standstill, raising anxieties that the world is on the verge of a significant slowdown. (NYT)• The Venezuelan company Citgo Petroleum, one of the largest refiners in the U.S., is considering bankruptcy after the Trump administration placed sanctions on Venezuela’s oil sector. (WSJ)• Chinese factories increasingly make goods for the country’s middle class, but when those consumers hold back, local workers can suffer. (NYT)• Lime, a scooter start-up based in San Francisco, is raising $400 million in its latest funding round, which values the company at $2 billion. (WSJ)• Palantir, a data-mining company, is handing out more bonuses and cheaper stock options after a succession of shareholder write-downs and political controversies tied to its co-founder, Peter Thiel. (Bloomberg)• Shell Oil reached a tentative agreement with the United Steelworkers union to increase pay by 11 percent over three years for 30,000 American workers. (Reuters)• Banks and smaller companies helped lift the stock market, a sign that investors are favoring sectors tied to the U.S. economy as trade tensions cloud global growth. (WSJ)• E.U. antitrust authorities have accused eight banks of colluding from 2007 to 2012 to manipulate the market for eurozone government bonds. (FT)• The cosmetics company e.l.f. Beauty imported 156 shipments of false eyelash kits with material sourced from North Korea, violating sanctions. The company will pay a settlement of nearly $1 million to the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control. (CNBC)• As China’s economy slows, gambling revenue in Macau fell 5 percent to $3.1 billion in January, the first fall since July 2016. (FT)• The polar vortex may cost American retailers and restaurants nearly $1 billion. (FT)• Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the country’s largest bank, may struggle if a powerful government inquiry intensifies regulatory pressure. (Reuters)• The curious case of why shares of PG&E rose after the utility company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byYou’ll never guess why we have so much shooting.By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistPerhaps you missed it, but this week the House of Representatives held its first hearing on gun violence in eight years.I know, I know. You’ve had a lot to keep track of, what with everything from the meltdown in Virginia to Jeff Bezos’ selfies.But about the hearing. Testimony centered on a bill that would make it harder for people to buy guns without thorough background checks. Supporters pointed out that right now it’s ridiculously easy to get lethal weapons from an unlicensed seller who is not going to check to see if said purchaser might have a record of violence, stalking or involuntary commitment for mental illness.Amazing, right?Opponents hugged the Second Amendment and argued that the real reason we have so many deaths by gunfire is … Well, guess:A) GunsB) BulletsC) ImmigrantsYes! Are we living in the age of Trump or what?“I hope we do not forget the pain and anguish and sense of loss felt by those all over the country who have been the victims of violence at the hands of illegal aliens,” said Representative Matt Gaetz, a Florida Republican who read a short list of people who had been shot by undocumented immigrants. Better background checks, he contended, “would not have stopped many of the circumstances I raised, but a wall, a barrier on the southern border may have, and that’s what we’re fighting for.”Is there anything that the wall wouldn’t solve? Nearly 40,000 Americans died in gun violence in 2017, the last year for which we have records. But if only there’d been a huge concrete slab dividing us from Mexico, they’d be fine.There are a lot of lawmakers prepared to say almost anything, no matter how nutty, in their role as worker bees for the National Rifle Association. But it was sort of surprising that the lead ranter was from Florida.Next week we’ll be recalling the first anniversary of the Parkland high school shootings in which one student with a gun took the lives of 17 people. We just passed the second anniversary of the fatal shooting of five people in the baggage claim area of the Fort Lauderdale airport. Which came six months after 49 people were shot to death at a nightclub in Orlando. And it was just a couple of weeks ago that a young man walked into a bank in Sebring, Fla., pulled out a pistol, forced five women to lie on the ground and shot each one in the back of the head.All in Congressman Gaetz’s state. All the gunmen were native-born Americans. Perhaps Gaetz feels the border situation was sending dangerous vibes across the Gulf of Mexico and spurring them on.Americans are very, very strongly in favor of good background checks, and it does seem likely this bill will pass the newly Democratic House. Beyond minor technical fixes, that’ll be the first time either chamber has done anything about the issue of gun violence in years.Oh, wait. In 2017 the House and Senate got together and revoked an Obama-era regulation that had made it harder for mentally ill people to purchase a gun.It’s highly unlikely the background check bill will make it into law. “Color me unclear as to how we get Mitch McConnell to bring it up in the Senate,” said Chris Murphy of Connecticut, one of the Senate sponsors.Sigh. All you can do is keep on trying. It may not make the laws any better, but at least it’ll remind the public that some people in power are worried.We have terrible gun problems in this country not just because firearms are all over the place, but also because of the careless, stupid attitude so many people have toward them.Partly, I blame Congress. (Hey, it’s better than blaming a shortage of steel slat barriers.) Senator Murphy believes the endless rejection of any gun legislation looks like a kind of “moral green light” to potential killers: “I truly believe these young men who have something very dark happening in their minds watch our silence and interpret it as an endorsement.”It certainly helps perpetuate the attitude that guns are a casual part of everyday life, like your wallet or socks — something you wear when you go out to buy a loaf of bread, leave lying around the house and treat in general with less care and discretion than a light bulb.Last year safety inspectors at American airports found 4,239 firearms in passengers’ carry-on bags — almost all of them loaded and a third with a bullet already in the chamber. While a few of those people may have been plotting a crime, it’s pretty clear the vast majority were just incredibly careless with lethal weapons.This is the kind of thinking that gives us endless mayhem involving violent, semi-deranged young men who just grab one of the family guns and mow down five people in a bar. Toddlers who shoot themselves when they stumble across a gun that Dad or Granddad left sitting on the bed. Or find a rifle in the back seat of the car and accidentally kill Mom while she’s pulling into the preschool parking lot.We hear stories like that every day. Obviously, it’s all because of those caravans of immigrants coming to the border.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]After facing months of vocal resistance, Amazon executives delivered a counteroffensive during a hearing Wednesday before the City Council, the second to delve into a deal that would bring new corporate offices to Queens with 25,000 jobs in exchange for as much as $3 billion in state and city incentives.At the start of the hearing, Amazon’s vice president for public policy, Brian Huseman, made a glancing reference in his prepared testimony to the fact that the company still has some say in whether it expands in New York City.“We were invited to come to New York, and we want to invest in a community that wants us,” he told the Council. He closed by repeating that the company wanted to “be part of the growth of a community where our employees and our company are welcome.”Opponents of the deal and their allies on the City Council also raised the possibility of the deal unraveling, asking officials whether the city could opt out of the agreement.“The mayor and the city could go to Amazon right now and say, ‘If you work with I.C.E., the deal is off; if you continue to be anti-union, the deal is off,’” said Councilman Jimmy Van Bramer, who represents the neighborhood of Long Island City, where the campus would be located.“We’re not looking to blow up the deal, but we are certainly looking to ensure that Amazon lives up to all of its obligations,” said James Patchett, the president of the city’s Economic Development Corporation. He acknowledged that most of the details of the deal — a nonbinding agreement between the city, state and Amazon — had yet to be worked out.The company said it remained committed to the plan to come to New York City, and in recent weeks has been mounting an aggressive effort at public relations to win support on the ground in Queens.Still, executives have expressed frustration in private at their treatment in New York, comparing it to the open-arms welcome they have gotten in Virginia, where the company announced plans to locate another large corporate campus.The deal with the city and state is not set in stone and could be undone by either party. And Amazon has yet to close on the purchase of a parcel of privately owned land that it would need for its new campus, according to a person with direct knowledge of the transaction.But Amazon seems more intent on weathering the storm of negative attention than packing its bags.Lobbyists and public relations experts enlisted by the company tried to ensure that the hearing on Wednesday went more smoothly than one in December, when Mr. Huseman and Holly Sullivan, who led the national search for a new corporate campus, faced withering questioning and a roomful of opponents.On Wednesday, a protest by opponents of the deal on the City Hall steps by local groups and the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union and the Teamsters was followed by a rally organized by Amazon in support of the company. The rally also included unions — Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union and the Building and Construction Trades Council.Indeed, much of the three-hour hearing revolved around Amazon’s approach related to labor unions. Council members spoke of their own family connections to unions as they excoriated the executives for Amazon’s treatment of its workers, especially in the sprawling distribution centers for home deliveries; one such center is on Staten Island.“Would you agree to neutrality if workers at Amazon wanted to unionize?” the speaker of the Council, Corey Johnson, asked early on.“No, sir,” Mr. Huseman said.The answer incensed several Council members who brought it up several times.Mr. Huseman, a mostly soft-spoken Oklahoman, parried questions more effectively than during the first hearing but grew animated after repeated questions about unionization.“We have great-paying jobs and we respect an employee’s right to choose or not to join a union,” he said. “The goal that you are trying to achieve is good jobs, not low-paying jobs. We pay $17 to $23 an hour in Staten Island.”Mayor Bill de Blasio, when asked at an unrelated news conference about the back-and-forth over unions, said: “Welcome to New York City. We’re a union town.”“There is going to be tremendous pressure on Amazon to allow unionization and I will be one of the people bringing that pressure,” he added. “I believe that ultimately that pressure will win the day.”At several points, Council members used comments Mr. de Blasio made in his State of the City speech about money being in the “wrong hands,” and the scourge of “Reaganomics,” to attack the deal. Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, is the world’s wealthiest person.Members of the Council also criticized the modest scope of Amazon’s announcement that it would hire as many as 30 residents of public housing for a customer service call center. The New York City Housing Authority is home to more than 400,000 people.“That idea came from conversations with the community advisory committee,” Ardine Williams, the company’s vice president of human resources, said, referring to gatherings organized by the state as part of the development process.After the hearing, Mr. Huseman made a point of shaking hands with Mr. Van Bramer and several other Council members.“A little better than last time,” he said as he made his way out. “They should be asking tough questions, and they did.”Follow J. David Goodman on Twitter: @jdavidgoodmanAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey FortinAfter its first spaceflight in December, Virgin Galactic sent the same vessel past the edge of the atmosphere for a second time on Friday. This time, the rocket plane went higher and faster than before — and it had three crew members on board instead of two.The flight marked another step forward in a new kind of space race — one that aims to allow private citizens (who can afford the ticket) an opportunity to exit our atmosphere.It was the company’s fifth supersonic-powered test flight, and it reached an altitude of nearly 56 miles before returning safely to the Mojave Desert runway in California where it took off. Beth Moses, an astronaut trainer and microgravity research expert, was in the cabin as the company’s first test passenger in space.The SpaceShipTwo craft, a suborbital, rocket-fueled space plane called the VSS Unity, lifted off shortly after 8 a.m. local time. It was carried aloft under a larger  carrier plane for nearly an hour and then released. Next, its rocket ignited to propel the vessel, and its three crew members, up to where the sky turned black.Unity reached Mach 3 — three times the speed of sound — before the rocket motor was switched off shortly before 9 a.m. Then the vessel coasted to its highest altitude of 55.87 miles above sea level. Two tail booms rotated into a “feathered” position to create drag, allowing the vessel to fall gently back into the atmosphere and, ultimately, glide toward the runway.George T. Whitesides, the chief executive of Virgin Galactic, said the research conducted on the flight focused not only on the vessel’s trajectory, but also on the passenger experience.It went smoothly, he said. “The pilots did a great job.”The flight was a success for Richard Branson, the British billionaire who started Virgin Galactic in 2004. (Other billionaires funding private spaceflight projects include Elon Musk, who runs SpaceX, and Jeff Bezos, who is behind Blue Origin.)“Having Beth fly in the cabin today, starting to ensure that our customer journey is as flawless as the spaceship itself, brings a huge sense of anticipation and excitement to all of us here who are looking forward to experiencing space for ourselves,” Mr. Branson said in a statement on Friday.Ms. Moses’ job was to evaluate how passengers might experience a trip in the cabin. She observed the light, the temperature and the feeling of moving around in zero gravity. In an interview after the flight, she said it felt comfortable, and the view was beautiful.“It was intense and magical and serene and almost unlike anything anyone can imagine,” she said. “The earth below was super clear and bright, with a beautiful blue Pacific Ocean and snow on the mountaintops.”Ventures like these are more useful for testing the limits of tourism than for advancing scientific research, said Jonathan McDowell, an astrophysicist at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. He said the Virgin flights could be used to conduct microgravity tests or equipment checks.“But at this stage, from a scientist’s point of view, it’s equivalent to what we call a sounding rocket,” he said. “And we’ve been doing those since the 1940s.”Sounding rockets are vessels that were sent by NASA to the upper reaches of the atmosphere to collect data and test instruments starting in 1945 — an important precursor to more advanced space travel.NASA did participate in Friday’s flight via its Flight Opportunities program, which pays Virgin Galactic for space to conduct research inside the Unity during its trip.And the three people on board — two pilots, David Mackay and Michael Masucci, and Ms. Moses — got the vantage point of a lifetime.Never miss an eclipse, a meteor shower, a rocket launch or any other astronomical and space event that's out of this world.In an interview after the flight, Mr. Mackay commented on how quickly the sky turned black once the atmosphere faded, and Mr. Masucci said he was astonished by the sight of a very bright moon. They said the flight was amazing, but not frightening.“If you’re fully prepared, you don’t feel scared,” Mr. Mackay said.There is some room for debate as to whether Virgin Galactic has actually sent people into space. On both of its space trips — the vessel reached an altitude of 51.4 miles last time — the Unity flew higher than the Federal Aviation Administration’s definition of where space begins, but lower than another widely accepted boundary between Earth and space, called the Kármán Line, which is about 62 miles above sea level.In any case, Unity has flown high enough that the pilots saw a black sky above them and a blue-brown Earth below as they crested at the edge of the atmosphere. (Dr. McDowell is skeptical about the Kármán Line and thinks it is fair to say that Unity reached proper space on both of its recent trips.)Unity was the first Virgin Galactic craft to reach space, but it was not the first private spacecraft to get there. Another ship, operated by Mojave Aerospace Ventures, which later licensed its technology to Mr. Branson, soared to an altitude of 69.7 miles about 15 years ago.At the time, people predicted that it was the dawn of a new age of commercial human spaceflight. But the enthusiasm faded as years passed. Some non-astronauts were flown to the International Space Station, but commercial flights did not come to fruition. Then came a tragic setback: the fatal crash of a previous SpaceShipTwo craft in 2014. One pilot was killed after he released the lock on the booms too early and the vessel fell apart, investigators found.Virgin Galactic is expected to keep doing test flights and making improvements in terms of safety, altitude and weight capacity. It is still unclear when private citizens — including the more than 600 who have already bought tickets — will be allowed to take a ride.“It’s definitely not a decade,” Mr. Whitesides said. “We are really getting pretty close.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byDigital media has always been a turbulent business, but last week’s layoffs suggest a reason for panic. By Farhad ManjooOpinion ColumnistWorking in digital media is like trying to build a fort out of marshmallows on a foundation made of marbles in a country ruled by capricious and tyrannical warring robots. I’ve toiled in this business for nearly 20 years, and even in the best of times it has been a squeamish and skittering ride, the sort of career you’d counsel your kids to avoid in favor of something less volatile and more enduring — bitcoin mining, perhaps. It might be tempting, then, to dismiss the recent spate of media-biz layoffs as unfortunate but otherwise not concerning. Two hundred workers, including dozens of journalists, were given the slip last week at BuzzFeed. About 800 people are losing their jobs in the media division of Verizon, the telephone company that owns Yahoo, HuffPost, TechCrunch and many other “content brands.” And Gannett, the once-mighty newspaper empire that owns USA Today and hundreds of smaller outlets — from The Bergen County Record to The Zanesville Times Recorder — is letting go of 400.But it would be a mistake to regard these cuts as the ordinary chop of a long-roiling digital media sea. Instead, they are a devastation. [Farhad Manjoo answered your questions on Twitter.]The cause of each company’s troubles may be distinct, but collectively the blood bath points to the same underlying market pathology: the inability of the digital advertising business to make much meaningful room for anyone but monopolistic tech giants.Coming in a time of economic prosperity, at world-historical levels of interest in the news, last week’s cuts tell a story of impending slow-motion doom — and a democratic emergency in the making, with no end in sight.Consider: We are in the midst of a persistent global information war. We live our lives on technologies that sow distrust and fakery, that admit little room for nuance and complication, that slice us up into ignorant and bleating tribes. It is an era that should be ripe for journalists and for the business of journalism — a profession that, though it errs often, is the best way we know of inoculating ourselves against the suffocating deluge of rumor and mendacity.And for a while, it looked like we could do that. The past half decade has been a season of bold and optimistic innovation in media. In addition to the Trump bump, there was new money from venture capitalists, and giants in cable and telecom. Big brands, looking to attract millennials, began to spend haltingly and then generously on advertising, leading to a Cambrian explosion of new sites, new formats, new business models. And consumers began opening up their wallets to support journalism, turning around the fortunes of The New York Times.Many in the industry remain optimistic about these ways forward. There’s a doubling-down on subscriptions, a rush to podcasts and high-end video, and a return to smaller and more calculated media ventures, like Bill Simmons’s tiny but profitable start-up, The Ringer. Then there is the charity of digital billionaires. The Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism, Jeff Bezos’ Washington Post, Laurene Powell Jobs’s Atlantic magazine, Marc Benioff’s Time and Farhad Manjoo’s Color Me Skeptical That the Billionaires Who Got Us Into This Mess Will Save Us Gazette.But it takes only a quick jaunt through the particulars of last week’s layoffs to snuff out much reason for optimism.In the cuts at Gannett, we see the nearly final evisceration of local news, an institution recognized as democratically vital even by the mainstream media’s most frothing detractors. Gannett’s end now looks nigh; the company is presently laboring under a hostile takeover bid by a secretive hedge fund whose only demonstrated expertise lies in “strip-mining” publications of their final morsels of profit.In the troubles at Verizon, we see a behemoth that tried to take on Google and Facebook. Under a former executive, Tim Armstrong, the phone company bought up Yahoo and other media brands as useful pawns in a strategic war against internet giants. For similar reasons, Comcast has also plowed money into media start-ups.But Verizon quickly learned that Facebook and Google are insurmountable. When new management took over last year, it began dumping the news in favor of readier ways to make money.It’s the cuts at BuzzFeed that sting most. You may regard the site as a purveyor of silly listicles and inane quizzes. I think of it as a relentlessly experimental innovator: It’s the site that gave us The Dress and published The Dossier, a company that pushed the rest of the industry to regard the digital world with seriousness and rigor.More than anyone else in media, BuzzFeed’s founder, Jonah Peretti, bet on symbioses with the tech platforms. He understood that the tech giants would keep getting bigger, but to him that was a feature, not a bug. By creating content that hooked into their algorithms, he imagined BuzzFeed getting bigger — and making money — along with them.At the least, the layoffs suggest the tragic folly of Mr. Peretti’s thinking. Google and Facebook have no economic incentive for symbiosis; everything BuzzFeed can do for them can also be done by the online hordes who’ll make content without pay.So where does that leave media? Bereft. It is the rare publication that can survive on subscriptions, and the rarer one that will be saved by billionaires. Digital media needs a way to profitably serve the masses. If even BuzzFeed couldn’t hack that, we are well and truly hosed.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Farhad Manjoo became an opinion columnist for The Times in 2018. Before that, he wrote the State of the Art column. He is the author of “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.”  @fmanjoo • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON — Donald Trump specializes in spectacular breakups.First there was Ivana. Then there was Marla. Now comes trouble in paradise with Kim.Last fall, Trump cooed that the North Korean dictator wrote him “beautiful letters” and “we fell in love,” but then the president canceled their lunch date following their disappointing rendezvous in Hanoi.Yet all the crazy tabloid splits and international spats seem pallid in comparison to the pathetic spectacle in Congress on Wednesday: a heartbroken ex publicly and bitterly processing his relationship with Trump.This time, it wasn’t just lust, betrayal and secrets splayed across Page Six. This time, it was in Congress, part of an investigation that could lead to legal jeopardy for the Trumps or impeachment for the president.In his testimony, Michael Cohen called himself a “fool” when it came to Trump. “I ignored my conscience and acted loyal to a man when I should not have,” Cohen said. A fool for love, held in thrall by Trump. How could anyone be held in thrall by such a sleazy goofball, much less offer to take a bullet for him or make 500 threats on his behalf?“It seems unbelievable that I was so mesmerized by Donald Trump that I was willing to do things for him that I knew were absolutely wrong,” said Cohen in his “Goodfellas” accent, adding that being around the “icon” was “intoxicating.”“Mr. Trump is an enigma,” Cohen said. “He is complicated, as am I.”Actually, Trump is simple, grasping for money, attention and fame. The enigma about Trump is why he cut off his lap dog so brutally that Cohen fell into the embrace of Robert Mueller and New York federal prosecutors. Trump is often compared to a mob boss, but Michael Corleone would never turn on a loyal capo, only on one who had crossed him.The portrait Cohen drew of Trump was not surprising. It has been apparent for some time that the president is a con man, racist, cheat and liar. (See: Jared Kushner security clearance.)What was most compelling about the congressional hearing was the portrait of the sadistic relationship between the sycophant and the sociopath.Cohen told the House Oversight Committee that working for Trump had made him feel that he was “involved in something greater than yourself — that you were somehow changing the world.”Threatening to sue people and take away their livelihoods or ruin their reputations isn’t exactly Greenpeace or Doctors Without Borders. But Cohen was chugging Trump Kool-Aid. He saw himself as Trump’s protector, the thug’s thug.In late 2017, he appeared to get misty while talking to Vanity Fair’s Emily Jane Fox about Trump: “One man who wants to do so much good with so many detractors against him needs support.” He vowed he would never walk away from Trump, no matter what. A year ago, he even shopped around a book that was meant to be a rebuttal to Michael Wolff’s “Fire and Fury,” pitched as the “family fix-it guy” and titled “Trump Revolution: From the Tower to the White House, Understanding Donald J. Trump.”He understands Trump now.A stung Trump went on a tweet storm Friday morning, bringing up that book proposal, calling it a “‘love letter to Trump’ manuscript,” and noting: “Written and submitted long after Charlottesville and Helsinki, his phony reasons for going rogue. Book is exact opposite of his fake testimony, which now is a lie!”Unlike many Republican TV commentators who can wash away past sins about Sarah Palin and the Iraq war — and get a big payday and liberal love — by trashing Trump, Cohen is not destined for reputation rehab.The problem in a nutshell, as Trump biographer Timothy O’Brien once told The Times, was that Michael Cohen wasn’t Roy Cohn. The latter Trump lawyer was the one who helped shape Trump’s character or lack thereof, drumming in the win-at-all-costs mentality Donald had learned at his father’s knee.Trump, who once bleated “Where’s my Roy Cohn?” in his anger about Jeff Sessions recusing himself, wanted a lawyer who was whip-smart, amoral, ruthless and predatory. Cohen was merely Renfield to Trump’s Dracula, gratefully eating insects and doing the fiend’s bidding.Trump used Cohen for dirty deeds done dirt cheap, as ACDC sang.The Wall Street Journal reported that Trump showed up late to Cohen’s son’s bar mitzvah and then made a belittling speech about how he had come only because Cohen had begged him and everyone around him. The Times revealed last April that Trump had regularly threatened to fire Cohen and quoted Roger Stone saying that Trump mocked Cohen for overpaying for Trump real estate.With a few exceptions in his inner circle and with family, Trump doesn’t give loyalty or deserve it. That’s why Republicans on the Hill who so obsequiously stand by him will eventually learn it wasn’t worth it, just as Cohen warned them.Loyalty is a rare commodity in Washington. And Cohen is not the most wretched sycophant in political history. That honor goes to Andrew Young, a slavishly devoted aide to John Edwards during the 2008 campaign who served as a driver, personal shopper, handyman and butler to the North Carolina senator.When Edwards had an affair with campaign videographer Rielle Hunter and a pregnancy ensued, he persuaded Young to say that he was the father. Edwards also got Young to go on the lam with his wife, who was a nurse, and Hunter and the baby, hiding out in fancy hotels and a posh home near Santa Barbara — an odyssey financed by Young and Bunny Mellon. As Young wrote in “The Politician,” inside the campaign there was “a cult-like atmosphere” that encouraged extreme sycophancy.When Trump gave me a tour of his campaign headquarters in Trump Tower in the summer of 2016, he introduced Cohen as “my lawyer.” Cohen looked furtive, standing around with Trump favorites Corey Lewandowski and Hope Hicks and a few young guys at a desk and a whole bunch of Trump portraits and cutouts and a wall with pictures of Trump’s vanquished primary rivals.It was the least presidential campaign headquarters ever, with the drywall still unfinished in some places. As The Times reported, Cohen, who had been pushing for years for Trump to be president, was jealous of the attention Trump gave Lewandowski.When Trump somehow stumbled into the presidency, he and his family did not think Cohen was up to snuff to come to Washington, much less get some high-level job like chief of staff that he dreamed of. The Journal reported that Cohen and his guests did not even get priority access to the inaugural fetes.“He was central casting for Trump Tower but not for 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue,” Trump biographer Michael D’Antonio told me. “The problem is, of course, that much of what burdens Cohen is exactly what Trump liked about him in the past. He was willing to be awful on command and had done so countless times making countless enemies. As someone who was the target of this behavior, I can tell you it was so cartoonish as to be ridiculous.”Everyone is disposable in Trumpworld. They sidelined the fixer. By the time federal prosecutors were investigating Cohen’s hush payments to Trump inamoratas, an adult-film actress and a former Playboy model, Trump was barely speaking to Cohen.“Boss, I miss you so much,” he said in a rare phone call with Trump, The Journal reported. “I wish I was down there with you. It’s really hard for me to be here.”The yearning was even more palpable than texts from Jeff Bezos to Lauren Sanchez.The self-styled protector was in purdah and he resented it.“If Trump was more sophisticated and had the ability to think long term, he would have anticipated that Cohen might have become a problem if he didn’t hold him close,” O’Brien told me. But Trump isn’t a long-term thinker.“He’s never had to deal with the people he has face-planted coming back to haunt him — ever. He’s been doing this to people for decades,” O’Brien said. The difference now? “He never had law enforcement turning people on him and essentially weaponizing them against him.”D’Antonio agreed that “the president made the mistake of disrespecting Cohen because he believed he had purchased Michael and that he would stay bought. When the underdog turns and bites hard, the overdog is always surprised.”I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.As Melania Trump already knows, just because President Trump loves you doesn’t mean he can spell your name. Hamburgers just found that out the hard way.Trump hosted the Clemson football team at the White House on Tuesday, and he welcomed the players with a overflowing order of fast food. But when he tweeted about the experience — proudly declaring that he had paid for the meal himself — Trump misspelled “hamburgers.” Badly.“Because of the Shutdown I served them massive amounts of Fast Food (I paid), over 1000 hamberders etc.,” he wrote. (The number may also be wrong: Speaking to reporters, he said that he had ordered only 300 burgers.)The president deleted the tweet soon after it was posted, but it was too late: Late-night TV had already spied its red meat.“Normally I would wonder if you didn’t know how to spell it or if you just made a typo. But this one is so bad, I think it’s both. I think you don’t know how to spell it, and then you made a typo of the wrong spelling in your head. I think you looked at that afterwards and thought, [impersonating Trump] ‘Oh man, that’s supposed to have two d’s in it! I’m so emblarassed.’” — SETH MEYERS“That’s right, in addition to ‘hamberders,’ there were ‘chorken nerglets,’ ‘fronch firs,’ ‘felayshofitch’ and of course ‘pizzazz.’” — STEPHEN COLBERTSenator Kirsten Gillibrand isn’t the first Democrat to announce she’s exploring a run for president in 2020 — but she is the first to do it on late-night TV. Gillibrand, who represents New York, broke the news in a highly anticipated appearance on “The Late Show” Tuesday night.She grabbed Stephen Colbert by the hand and told him: “I’m filing an exploratory committee for president of the United States — tonight!” Then she listed the reasons she’s running.“I’m going to fight for other people’s kids as hard as I would fight for my own — which is why I believe that health care should be a right and not a privilege,” she said. “It’s why I believe we should have better public schools for our kids, because it shouldn’t matter what block you grow up on. And I believe that anybody who wants to work hard enough should be able to get whatever job training they need to earn their way into the middle class.”Colbert reminded Gillibrand that he had run presidential campaigns (as stunts, of course) in 2008 and 2012. “I know how difficult it can be. I hope it goes better for you than it did for me,” he joked.Then Colbert offered the senator a basket full of charms and souvenirs, including a plane ticket to Michigan — a sidelong swipe at Hillary Clinton, who neglected to campaign in that state in 2016 and famously lost it to Trump.Jimmy Fallon taped Tuesday’s “Tonight Show” in Puerto Rico, and things got going with a bang. During the opening sequence, Fallon joined Lin-Manuel Miranda and the cast of “Hamilton” in the theater in San Juan where they’re currently performing the musical. Then, along with Questlove and Black Thought of the Roots, he wandered into downtown San Juan, where he met up with the singer Bad Bunny. An impromptu dance party started.Later in the show, Fallon interviewed Miranda about his decision to bring “Hamilton” to Puerto Rico, where the playwright and actor’s father is from. Miranda talked about the resonances between the subject matter in “Hamilton” and the experiences of Puerto Ricans.“There’s a song in this show called ‘Hurricane,’ and I could barely get through it last night, because it is about that,” he said. “What I remember from Hurricane Maria so vividly was the quiet — was, like, literally not being able to hear from the island in that sort of immediate aftermath. And the opening line to that song is, ‘In the eye of a hurricane, there’s quiet.’ So it sort of brought all that back.” He said he hadn’t imagined “it would resonate in this particular way.”Miranda is donating the proceeds from the performances there to the Flamboyan Foundation, which supports artists on the island.Representative Steve King — who has a long history of making racist remarks — was stripped of his committee posts this week by congressional Republican leaders after saying in an interview with The New York Times that he wasn’t sure why terms like “white supremacist” and “white nationalist” were considered offensive. He’s been derided by politicians on both sides of the aisle, and some Republicans have called for him to resign.One person who has not weighed in is Trump, who told reporters that he had not been following the story. Hearing this, Trevor Noah feigned astonishment.“You haven’t been following it? What else are you doing? [impersonating Trump] ‘I’m extremely busy, folks. You think a name like “Jeff Bozo” just comes out of nowhere, huh? Genius like that takes time!’” — TREVOR NOAH, referring to Trump’s new epithet for Jeff Bezos“In an interview with The New York Times, Steve King basically said that he doesn’t think there’s anything wrong with being a white supremacist. Now, that feels like a pretty racist thing to say — which makes it even more surprising that Trump isn’t following this. I mean, you’d think an algorithm would have recommended it by now. It’d be like, ‘If you like Charlottesville, you’ll love Steve King!’” — TREVOR NOAHAfter critiquing Trump, Noah aired a noir-style skit in which he donned a detective’s outfit and tried to sleuth out whether King is, in fact, a racist.Seth Meyers decided to examine how Trump’s policies were affecting the rural voters who helped elect him.Just how strong is Terry Crews?Lily Tomlin and Jane Fonda, whose Netflix show “Grace and Frankie” is about to embark on its fifth season, will talk to Jimmy Kimmel on Wednesday.The Motion Picture Academy threw up its hands and decided to go without a host at next month’s Oscars. But the Grammys, at least, will have a host — and it will be Alicia Keys, the singer announced on Tuesday. She’ll be the broadcast’s first female host in over a decade.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowThe 100 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAs the company cancels its plans for a major Queens campus, anti-corporate activists got what they wanted at a great cost. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.“You have to be tough to make it in New York City,” Mayor Bill de Blasio boasted, choosing to jeer at Amazon as it canceled its plans on Thursday to build a new headquarters in Queens, after some local officials angrily criticized its proposal. What a strange thing for the mayor to take pride in. It’s certainly true that you have to be tough these days. But that’s because the subways don’t work, the streets are gridlocked, the housing is unaffordable, the shelters are overcrowded, and the schools are segregated and often inadequate. Now think how much tougher it’ll become for the typical citizen — not the ones who ride in chauffeured government cars — if New York gets a reputation for the smugness of its politicians and their hostility to business. There were all sorts of problems with the deal New York cut to bring Amazon to the city, and Amazon is no paragon, but its abrupt withdrawal was a blow to New York, which stood to gain 25,000 jobs and an estimated $27 billion in tax revenue over the next two decades. This embarrassment to the city presents a painful lesson in how bumper-sticker slogans and the hubris of elected — and corporate — officials can create losers on all sides.Gov. Andrew Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio, in a rare fit of comity, rolled out the red carpet for Amazon, for what would have been one of the biggest economic deals ever in the state. They offered the company $3 billion in tax benefits to build a campus in the Long Island City neighborhood. But it was clear as soon as the company, governor and mayor announced the deal in November that not all New Yorkers felt welcoming. Politicians and activists had good reason to criticize the size of the tax breaks and the secrecy of the negotiations. After years of rapid development in New York that has come with soaring real estate prices, many rightly feared Amazon’s arrival could accelerate already costly gentrification. Things quickly got out of hand, though, and reasonable criticism of the deal was overwhelmed by opposition to the company itself, even as polls showed wide support for Amazon’s move to Queens. Elected officials who identify as progressive painted Amazon as a rapacious engine of inequality. It seemed that few were interested in having a constructive conversation about how to improve the deal and make it work for the tech giant and the city.Some berated the company’s executives in a City Council hearing and at rallies. That kind of tough talk is par for the course in “if you can make it here, you can make it anywhere” New York. But in grandstanding, they missed an opportunity to try to get the company to help address housing and infrastructure problems that the development, for all its benefits, would exacerbate. Perhaps they thought the city’s pool of skilled workers and many other attractions made it so irresistible that there was no need to negotiate.“We have the best talent in the world, and every day we are growing a stronger and fairer economy for everyone,” the mayor said. “If Amazon can’t recognize what that’s worth, its competitors will.” Because, you know, Amazon’s competitors have a great track record of seeing the future more clearly than Jeff Bezos.Last week, the State Senate majority leader, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, nominated a critic of the deal, Senator Michael Gianaris, to a state board that had veto power over it. Mr. Gianaris, who represents the district where the campus would have been located, had legitimate concerns over the arrangement and wanted more investment from Amazon in the city. Though his staff was engaged in discussions with Amazon, he refused even to meet with anyone from the company. His appointment could only have helped Amazon decide to call New York’s bluff. The governor seems to think so.“The New York State Senate has done tremendous damage,” Mr. Cuomo said in a statement on Thursday. “They should be held accountable for this lost economic opportunity.” He’s got a point.Blame also needs to be assigned, of course, to a system in which powerful corporations can milk billions in tax benefits out of cities and states to locate facilities, without any added investment in infrastructure, schools and other benefits. Amazon, one of the richest companies in the world, run by the richest man in the world, had held a nationwide contest in which governments scraped together enough entitlements to satisfy it, even as those same cities struggled to fortify corroding infrastructure and stave off a housing crisis that has pushed the middle class to the brink and forced the poor into homeless shelters. Amazon’s initial offerings to New York — like a $5 million commitment to work force development — were meager. The company displayed arrogance of its own and seemed to have little respect for greater public scrutiny and review, and little interest in salvaging the deal once it became vulnerable. Mssrs. Cuomo and de Blasio should have better prepared for what was in store, since their constituents are maybe more worried about housing, subways and the cost of living than in job creation alone. In fact, it’s partly thanks to the failure of these elected leaders to seriously address the subway and housing crises that Amazon was met by some with such visceral anger and anxiety. If they’d better anticipated that reaction, they might have worked with the company to address these issues, and win local buy-in before things went off the rails. Then, together with Amazon, they could have helped the city diversify its economy and leverage the power of a tech giant to help solve big problems. It’s an opportunity lost. May it also be a lesson learned.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" work FriendMaybe you’re a freelancer. Maybe you’re trying to get a freelancer’s attention. Either way, getting to inbox sanity is a slippery exercise.Enough with the reminders, already.CreditCreditEmily Simms for The New York TimesSupported byBy Katy LedererSend questions about the office, money, careers and work-life balance to workfriend@nytimes.com. Include your name and location, even if you want them withheld. Letters may be edited.As a freelance writer, I work from home. Many of my “work associates” are either (A) people who email me ideas or (B) people I email ideas to. Multiple times a day, I receive follow-up emails from members of category A. Sometimes they’re checking in on something they sent mere hours ago. I get enough of these emails that I cannot respond to every one, otherwise my entire workday would be spent writing missives like “Sorry, not interested!” Of course, I find myself on the other end of this hellish pitch cycle when I send follow-up emails to members of category B, usually no sooner than three days after sending my last note.All of which poses the question: What is a reasonable amount of time to wait before sending a follow-up email?— S.M., Los AngelesI started off writing a long thing about how freelancers are like a pile of worms trapped in a Mason jar. They writhe around one another, unable to escape, because whenever one tries to climb up the disgusting, slippery wall, the others can’t help wriggling and pulling the almost-free one back into the heaving, moistened pile. But I stopped writing this because there is actually a simple answer to your question.First, get a second email account. Give this new address to anyone who pitches you.Second, write an out-of-office message: “Hello there. Thank you for your query. I do my best to respond to every pitch, but it can take me up to three days to do so. If your message is time-sensitive, please write ‘time-sensitive’ in the subject line and re-send. If you have not heard from me within three days, you can assume that your pitch is not a fit for me right now.”When it comes to your own pitches: three days seems a good interval to me, though you should certainly write “time-sensitive” in the subject line if three days will be too long to wait. Make sure it’s not a holiday or the editor hasn’t been fired since you first pitched.As for escaping from the writhing Mason jar to actually get something of substance accomplished: During the day, go to a cafe and write from there. Don’t ask for the internet password. (When you do, you’re just begging for your computer to be hacked.) Get more work done and become rich and powerful.I like the people at work, the hours aren’t bad, the office is pretty nice, etc. But I hate my job and really resent going to work every day. My real passion is playwriting, and I can’t help but think that if I didn’t have this job, I’d get a lot more writing done. I feel embarrassed when I tell people what it is I do for a living and worry that they’ll think less of me and not “get” me. I know that’s stupid, but it’s wearing on my self-esteem.How do you know when it’s time to quit your day job? Or: How do you keep up your day job and keep your head up at the same time?— P.B., San FranciscoYour worries are not stupid. Many people that you know and meet will think less of you, at least if you live in an absurdly competitive city like San Francisco. Any excuse to feel even a little bit better than someone else, right?Because who knows what’s going on with them. Maybe they have sacrificed everything — even adequate dental care — to follow their dreams, and now their molars are falling out of their mouth and they can hardly eat yogurt, let alone subsist on all the writing they produce on a daily basis.Or maybe they have a huge trust fund that they don’t tell anyone about, and they live in a hovel even though they could afford a mansion, and every week they complain to their expensive therapist about feeling like a fraud.Maybe they have a professional partner who financially supports their work, and they write and they write, and they publish and publish, but it all sucks.Maybe one day they meet you at a party. You say you have a day job, but instead of stating proudly that you work in a fine office with kind colleagues that you actually like, you act like an impostor. After the party, they go home and gossip to friends that you’re a sellout and a fool. Their friends outwardly agree with them, even though they know inside your writing’s actually really good, day job or not.In fact, everybody knows inside your writing’s actually really good, but no one will ever admit this to themselves, let alone each other, because this might jeopardize whatever sort of unstable hierarchy they have established in the gloomy bars and insular theaters that they frequent as a group in their ridiculous amounts of spare time.Trust me, these people who despise you and talk about you behind your back would like nothing more than for you to actually stop writing. It would legitimize their choices and it would also cull the field by one more body, which is more than none. But don’t give them what they want, O.K.? Just keep writing and, maybe more important, just keep putting yourself out there.Bitter writing can be good. Angry writing can be really good. And writing about soul-crushing day jobs has produced some genuine theatrical masterpieces.Should you follow your interviewer on Twitter after a (media) job interview? Or is that weird?— A., BostonNo, you should not. But it wouldn’t be that weird if you did, either.Think upside and downside: The upside if you follow is … what? You read this person’s random hot take on whatever new pickle Jeff Bezos has gotten himself into? The downside is: There is a small but nonzero chance they think you’re creepy or annoying. If you think the interview went well, just leave it at that. Always leave them wanting more.Katy Lederer is the author of three books of poems and a memoir. Write to her at workfriend@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman and Karen WeiseA senior executive from Amazon, one of the world’s biggest companies, found himself last weekend in a showdown with a suburban state senator.The executive, Brian Huseman, was trying to find out whether the New York state senator, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, would keep an obscure state board from blocking Amazon’s ambitious plans to expand in New York City.It was the second phone call in two days between Mr. Huseman and Ms. Stewart-Cousins, who had just risen to power as Democratic majority leader, and once again, she tried to explain to him the politics of Albany.Ms. Stewart-Cousins said in an interview that she told Mr. Huseman, “We just need to move on,” indicating that Amazon had to let the approval process run its course.It was not the response that Amazon wanted.For Amazon, long accustomed to highly deferential treatment from localities across the country, the phone call was a further indignity after weeks of relentless criticism from lawmakers, unions and progressive activists that the company feared was staining its reputation.On Thursday, Amazon abruptly announced that it was canceling the deal, under which the company had promised to create more than 25,000 jobs on a new campus in Long Island City, Queens, in return for nearly $3 billion in government incentives.An examination of the deal’s collapse showed that Amazon badly misjudged how it would be received in New York, apparently because the company has rarely ventured into such a raucous political arena as it has pursued a breakneck expansion in recent years.This account was pieced together from dozens of interviews this week with government officials, Amazon representatives, lobbyists and others. Most spoke on the condition of anonymity to relay closed-door deliberations.[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The company’s retreat capped several days of intense behind-the-scenes maneuvering between government officials and Amazon executives, including efforts by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to woo unions and Mayor Bill de Blasio to try to reach Jeff Bezos, the company’s chief executive.On Monday, Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio, bitter rivals who had put aside their differences to mount a bid for an Amazon site, met in Albany to discuss how to pacify unions that had voiced strong objections to the company.Mr. de Blasio then called a top executive in the company, seeking assurances that the deal was still on. The executive did not indicate that it was in trouble.Public housing residents rallied on Monday, when a second poll came out showing broad support around the state for the deal.“We’re working to make sure that folks from our neighborhood could benefit from those jobs; there’s going to be a lot of jobs,” Bishop Mitchell G. Taylor, a community leader, said on Monday. Bishop Taylor grew up in the Queensbridge Houses, the large public housing development in Long Island City.On Tuesday morning, senior aides to the governor and mayor talked by phone with Mr. Huseman about next steps, including how to promote the jobs that the company was planning for New York.On the ground, the efforts appeared to be paying off: More local elected leaders were declaring their support for the deal. “N.Y. loves Amazon” buttons began appearing on lapels in the city.By Wednesday, a senior Amazon executive in charge of real estate, John Schoettler, arrived from Seattle for a meeting convened by Mr. Cuomo in his Manhattan offices between Amazon and unions. By the end, the unions and the executives seemed to be making progress toward a resolution.That night, the company decided internally to pull the plug.The choice blindsided Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio.“Out of nowhere, they took their ball and went home,” Mr. de Blasio said on Thursday night.He learned of the decision in a phone call from Jay Carney, an Amazon vice president and a former spokesman for President Barack Obama, according to a person briefed on the call. Even as the deal was in peril, Mr. Carney, who oversees the company’s press and government relations, never went to New York to meet with officials, three people with knowledge of the meetings said.Amazon can deliver toothpaste in traffic-snarled Manhattan on the same day an order is placed. But when it came to navigating the politics of New York, the company appeared out of step, a giant stumbling onto a political stage that — despite its data-driven success — it never fully understood.“Amazon underestimated the power of a vocal minority and miscalculated how much it needed to engage with those audiences to make HQ2 a success,” Joseph Parilla, a fellow at the Brookings Institution, said, referring to the second headquarters search.The company, in particular, failed to develop a robust strategy to address the growing influence of the progressive left in New York, led by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of Queens, who was elected in November and was a fervent skeptic of the deal.The political winds changed so swiftly that local lawmakers in Queens who had signed a letter in 2017 trying to woo Amazon refashioned themselves as champions of the opposition in recent months.One of them, State Senator Michael Gianaris, refused repeatedly to even meet with Amazon representatives despite at least three requests.So, too, did Corey Johnson, the speaker of the City Council; Mr. Johnson held hearings instead of the private meetings Amazon requested. Amazon met with 35 of the 51 council members, and more had been scheduled for this week. Mr. Johnson’s staff did meet with the company.A spokeswoman for Amazon declined to comment for this article. But two people involved in internal discussions at Amazon said the company’s concerns were not primarily that the deal would fail to receive government approval. Executives were confident it would cross the finish line.The company instead felt that, with little sign that the opposition was dissipating, it was staring down a decades-long commitment to a political climate in which everything the company did would be scrutinized.“Amazon had to think about what a long-term relationship with New York City would look like, and based on the experiences with local and state politicians to date, concluded it would be difficult at best,” one of the people said.Amazon executives involved in the negotiations said they were frustrated that the economic benefits of the project — a winning argument with many business leaders and some community members, including public housing residents — failed to sway some officials.“What we were hearing from people — small business owners, educators, community leaders — was completely different than what we were getting from the local elected officials,” said one of the people involved with the Amazon side.Those feelings, and Amazon’s eventual retreat, were foreshadowed by testimony from Mr. Huseman last month at the City Council: “We were invited to come to New York,” he said, adding pointedly, “and we want to invest in a community that wants us.”Instead, the company saw how its plans for Queens had become such a flash point that they turned into an issue in the Feb. 26 special election for public advocate, a citywide position with a big megaphone. Company officials worried that the debate over the project could drag on and become ensnared in the 2021 mayoral election, and beyond.“In most places, people are just doing cartwheels and somersaults when Amazon comes in,” said Alex Pearlstein, vice president at Market Street Services, which helps cities attract employers. “New York just didn’t need them as bad as most places do.”Amazon grew in Seattle for almost two decades with little civic engagement. Initially, most of its buildings were built by an outside developer. Neither Mr. Bezos, nor any Amazon executive, attended the groundbreaking ceremony for its headquarters that the mayor and governor threw.By about 2015, as Amazon was developing its own buildings, and with roughly 25,000 employees in Washington State, it started engaging more, albeit slowly.A top real estate executive chaired the local Chamber of Commerce, and it began forging relationships with two local nonprofits, one that works with homeless families and another job training program for the restaurant industry.Yet even as housing costs soared in the booming city, Amazon did not take public positions in debates over how to alleviate the affordability crunch. It largely saw its role as creating high-paying jobs, and the city’s job to accommodate them.So last year, when Amazon said it might halt its growth locally if the city approved a tax on large employers to fund homeless services and low-income housing, it sent a shock throughout Seattle. The city was not accustomed to the company playing hardball, let alone commenting on politics.The trouble in New York City began last year with a hostile City Council hearing in December, and then another last month.The company endured hours of attacks on its plans to come to New York, and on its business practices — particularly its stance against unions — in general. Protesters heckled. Council members forced an Amazon official to declare the company’s anti-union stance on the record.The moment resonated for executives: Amazon was not accustomed to being forced to respond publicly on its policies and operations.A turning point came on Feb. 4, when Ms. Stewart-Cousins, the new Democratic leader in the State Senate, selected Mr. Gianaris, the state senator and one of Amazon’s most vocal opponents, to the board with the power to block the deal. It was clear the opposition would not go away soon.Mr. Cuomo could refuse to appoint Mr. Gianaris, of Queens. But the company wanted to know: What would happen then?So on Feb. 8 and then again on Feb. 9, Amazon’s representatives spoke on the phone with Ms. Stewart-Cousins.She told the company’s representatives that Mr. Cuomo was planning to reject Mr. Gianaris. But she could not say precisely what would happen next, the people said. Who would be named in his place?Amazon wanted certainty that the next person selected would not be a roadblock: The fate of its campus could not hang on the whims of an unnamed state senator on a board — the Public Authorities Control Board — that few could name.She did not offer any guarantees, but thought the Senate and the company would be able to work together.“Obviously, the Legislature would have a role to play,” she said in an interview.The next time she heard from Mr. Huseman was Thursday, just as Amazon announced that the deal was dead.“He was saying, look, the political climate was just really, really hard,” Ms. Stewart-Cousins said. “He mentioned the City Council, the City Council speaker, the state, Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez. The political climate was really rough.”OpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Amazon on Thursday canceled its plans to build an expansive corporate campus in New York City after facing an unexpectedly fierce backlash from lawmakers, progressive activists and union leaders, who contended that a tech giant did not deserve nearly $3 billion in government incentives.The decision was an abrupt turnabout by Amazon after a much-publicized search for a second headquarters, which had ended with its announcement in November that it would open two new sites — one in Queens, with more than 25,000 jobs, and another in Virginia.Amazon’s retreat was a blow to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio, damaging their effort to further diversify the city’s economy by making it an inviting location for the technology industry.The agreement to lure Amazon to Long Island City, Queens, had stirred intense debate in New York about the use of public subsidies to entice wealthy companies, the rising cost of living in gentrifying neighborhoods, and the city’s very identity.“A number of state and local politicians have made it clear that they oppose our presence and will not work with us to build the type of relationships that are required to go forward,” Amazon said in a statement.The company made its decision late Wednesday, after growing increasingly concerned that the backlash in New York showed no sign of abating and was tarnishing its image beyond the city, according to two people with knowledge of the discussions inside the company.In recent days, Mr. de Blasio had tried to reach Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, according to one official. But Mr. Bezos did not speak with him, nor with Mr. Cuomo.[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The company’s decision was at least a short-term win for insurgent progressive politicians led by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, whose upset victory last year occurred in the western corner of Queens where Amazon had planned its site.Her race galvanized the party’s left flank, which mobilized against the deal, helped swing New York’s Legislature into Democratic hands, and struck fear in the hearts of some local politicians.On Thursday, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez seemed to revel in Amazon’s decision, writing on Twitter that “anything is possible.”Not only progressive activists took issue with the Amazon deal: Michael R. Bloomberg, who championed New York City as a technology hub while mayor, questioned the incentive package earlier this month.The company also had its supporters — in the city’s business community, among some unions and within nearby public housing, where some residents were hopeful that the project would bring jobs. A pair of polls showed broad support around the city and state.But in the end, it was not enough to persuade the company to ride out the torrent of negative attention.Amazon did not inform the governor or the mayor of its decision to pull out until Thursday morning, shortly before the company posted its announcement online.Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio reacted in starkly different ways. The governor blamed the newly emboldened Democrats who now control the State Senate for derailing the project.“A small group of politicians put their own narrow political interests above their community — which poll after poll showed overwhelmingly supported bringing Amazon to Long Island City — the state’s economic future and the best interests of the people of this state,” the governor said in a statement.For his part, Mr. de Blasio turned on the company after having steadfastly backed the deal.“We gave Amazon the opportunity to be a good neighbor and do business in the greatest city in the world,” Mr. de Blasio said. “Instead of working with the community, Amazon threw away that opportunity.”The mayor and the governor, who only rarely find common cause, met Monday in Albany and discussed how to save the deal, which had appeared increasingly imperiled, according to a person familiar with the conversations. After the meeting, Mr. de Blasio spoke to a senior Amazon executive by phone and was told that the company remained committed to New York, the person said.Both the mayor’s and the governor’s offices reassured Amazon executives that, despite the vocal criticism, the deal they had negotiated would be approved. But the company appeared upset at even a moderate level of resistance, said the person, who, like many of the people describing private conversations at the company and with elected officials, did so on the condition of anonymity.A decisive moment appeared to come when the Senate Democrats selected Senator Michael Gianaris of Queens for a state board with the power to veto the deal. Mr. Gianaris had once supported the efforts to bring Amazon to New York, but became a vocal critic after learning the details of the plan.Over time, opposition to Amazon had spread from the specifics of the deal to the company’s corporate practices. Elected officials and activists in New York drew attention to the company’s anti-union stance and its work with federal immigration officials — positions unpopular with Democratic leaders across the country.Amazon executives felt they had been open to answering questions, submitting to two City Council hearings, with another planned for later this month. They had begun working on a hiring plan, people with knowledge of the planning said, and were encouraged by public support in two polls of voters, conducted by Quinnipiac University and Siena College. While the subsidies were less popular, the deal to bring Amazon, and tens of thousands of jobs, was welcomed by a variety of groups.On Wednesday, Mr. Cuomo had even brokered a meeting between Amazon executives and union leaders who had been resistant to the deal — including from the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store union and the Teamsters.“Amazon and the governor and everybody agreed yesterday on a way to move forward,” said Stuart Appelbaum of the retail union, who was part of the meeting. “Shame on them. The arrogance of saying ‘do it my way or not at all.”’Some unions supported the deal, and even those opposed had appeared willing to work with Amazon if the company agreed to not work against the unionization of its employees in New York. An Amazon representative, during one council hearing, pointedly said the company would not agree to such terms.[Column: For once, Amazon loses a popularity contest.]Kathryn S. Wylde, the chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, an influential business group, said the reception Amazon had received sent a “pretty bad message to the job creators” of the city and the world.“How can anyone be surprised?” Ms. Wylde said. “We competed successfully, made a deal and spent the last three months trashing our new partner.”When Amazon announced plans for a second headquarters in September 2017, it promised 50,000 high-paying jobs and billions in investment for a community that would be coequal to its home in Seattle. The voracious company, whose ambitions outgrew the number of people it could hire in the Pacific Northwest, set off a nationwide frenzy, with more than 200 cities making bids.Amazon decided last fall that no one city could provide the number of tech workers it needed and split the headquarters in two.The company has long been willing to take short-term pain in exchange for maintaining long-term leverage. In Seattle, Amazon’s relationship with officials soured as it grew to become the city’s dominant employer. Last year, when the Seattle City Council proposed taxing large employers to pay for homeless services and affordable housing, Amazon took a rare public stance and threatened to halt its expansion. In the end, the city retreated and got rid of even a pared back version of the tax it had adopted.The Seattle relationship looms over Amazon’s growth plans. As much as Amazon wanted New York’s talent, it was not worth facing years of opposition on broad swaths of issues.Instead, Amazon will grow across its tech hubs, which include large outposts in cities like Boston, Austin, Tex., and Vancouver, British Columbia, as well as smaller ones in Pittsburgh and Detroit. It will lose the value it has said it finds in having employees in a centralized corporate campus, but will maintain flexibility to grow where and when it wants.Even in New York, where Amazon already has 5,000 workers, about half at a distribution center on Staten Island, the company still plans to add more jobs, particularly in advertising, fashion and web services.Mr. Gianaris said the collapse of the deal in Queens revealed the company’s unwillingness to work with the community it had wanted to join.“Like a petulant child, Amazon insists on getting its way or takes its ball and leaves,” said Mr. Gianaris, whose district includes Long Island City. “The only thing that happened here is that a community that was going to be profoundly affected by their presence started asking questions.“Even by their own words,” he added, pointing to the company’s statement on the pullout, “Amazon admits they will grow their presence in New York without their promised subsidies. So what was all this really about?”While small protests greeted the company after its initial announcement in November, the first inkling that opposition had taken hold among the city’s Democratic politicians came during a hostile City Council hearing the next month. Protesters filled the seats, unfurled banners and chanted against the company. Not a single council member spoke up in defense of the deal or the company.Company executives fared no better at their second appearance, in January, though supporters, lobbyists and consultants were better prepared. Unions supporting the deal, including the powerful 32BJ Service Employees International Union and the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, staged a rally outside City Hall immediately after one held by opponents.[Amazon had a ‘productive meeting’ with union leaders, just a day before they pulled out.]Still, the company did not hire a single New Yorker as an employee to represent it in discussions with local groups. Its main representatives traveled between Washington and Manhattan, and only one had moved into an apartment to work with community members and foster support.Gianna Cerbone, who owns a restaurant several blocks from what would have been the main Amazon campus, said the demise of the deal was a major blow to people who need jobs and local businesses that would have benefited.“I’m really upset because I don’t think they realized what they did,” she said of the elected officials who had opposed the plan. “And they’re proud of it? They think they did something lovely? They wanted the political gain, they should have done it in a different way. They get put into office for us, not to work for themselves.”An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to the district where Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez was elected. While she represents a neighboring district, it is not the district where the Amazon headquarters were planned. (Carolyn Maloney represents the 12th Congressional District.)Corey Kilgannon, Patrick McGeehan, William Neuman, Vivian Wang and Karen Weise contributed reporting.OpinionKara SwisherOpinionKenneth T. JacksonAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The Trump administration is nearing a trade deal with China that would roll back tariffs on both sides of the Pacific, Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT write.What America could get:• The deal would “require Beijing to make big purchases of American agricultural and energy goods and to lower some barriers that prevent American companies from operating in China.”• The potential agreement “would expand markets for American financial services firms and farmers, in part by requiring that China buy large amounts of energy and farm goods, like liquid natural gas and soybeans.”• “The Trump administration has also been pushing China to accept an enforcement mechanism that would enable the United States to quickly reinstate tariffs if Beijing fails to live up to specific promises.”And China:• “In return, the United States would most likely drop its tariffs on at least $200 billion of the $250 billion worth of Chinese imports currently subject to American levies.”• Beijing is also “pushing for the elimination of all of the Trump tariffs, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said.””But “early details indicate it would do little to substantively change the way China has long done business and would not force Beijing to curtail cyber theft or the subsidies that the administration complains create an uneven playing field for American companies.”• “The language aimed at China’s discrimination against foreign companies, like its antimonopoly law or standard-setting processes, is probably too vague to be enforceable,” according to an unidentified source.• “The pact also doesn’t alter China’s tight restrictions on data,” and “many of the big purchases that Beijing is promising would occur over a number of years, which could give China further leverage.”More: How Apple prevailed in the trade war. And why President Trump’s battle hasn’t helped narrow the trade deficit.The Chinese telecom giant plans to take the U.S. government to court for banning federal agencies from using its products, Ray Zhong and Paul Mozur of the NYT report.• “The move could be aimed at forcing the United States government to more publicly make its case against the Chinese equipment maker.”• “It is part of a broad push by Huawei to defend itself against a campaign led by the United States to undermine the company, which Washington sees as a security threat.”• Huawei’s lawsuit will challenge a section in a defense-spending law that blocks federal agencies from using its equipment. The company will argue that the provision amounts to a “bill of attainder,” or a legislative act that singles out a person or group for punishment without trial.• Huawei’s C.F.O., Meng Wanzhou, has already sued Canadian authorities for arresting her and moving to extradite her to the U.S.• Not everyone thinks that Ms. Meng’s legal action is sensible. “The quest for justice is everyone’s right,” Tim Culpan of Bloomberg Opinion writes, “yet Huawei risks coming off as belligerent instead of the calm and trustworthy partner it’s trying to portray.”On Friday, the Trump re-election campaign — including its manager, Brad Parscale, and an adviser, Newt Gingrich — called for a nationwide “wholesale” 5G network, that would allow the government to control the spectrum and find a way to share it with carriers.“A 5G wholesale market would drive down costs and provide access to millions of Americans who are currently underserved,” Kayleigh McEnany, the campaign’s national press secretary, told Politico.The news was met with surprise as it’s at odds with current White House policy. Axios says it was unable to find telecom policy advisers inside the Trump administration “who knew in advance from the Trump campaign that it would make this announcement.” The telecoms industry has long argued against nationalized 5G networks.The campaign later walked back its comments. “The White House sets the policy on 5G and all issues,” Ms. McEnany said in a statement. “The campaign fully supports the president’s priorities and his policy agenda.”But it raises concerns about what happens next. The administration previously contemplated taking a role in 5G, as detailed in a National Security Council memo leaked early last year. Brendan Carr, an F.C.C. commissioner, called such a move “China-like nationalization.”In the wake of Amazon pulling out of plans for a campus in New York City, the NYT studied the tactics the company has used to drive hard bargains all over the country.• Amazon closed its only warehouse in Texas after state officials pushed the company to pay nearly $270 million in back taxes in 2010. Texas eventually waived the taxes in exchange for new warehouses.• South Carolina officials denied Amazon a sales tax break in 2010, but gave the company an exemption after it threatened to stop hiring there.• The company has collected over $2.4 billion in taxpayer subsidies for its locations, according to Good Jobs First, a nonprofit that tracks corporate tax breaks.• “They are just as cutthroat as can be,” Alex Perlstein, vice president of Market Street Services, told the NYT.• And Amazon has no regrets, according to the NYT: “Asked recently by a business publication if Amazon would change anything about the headquarters search in retrospect, Holly Sullivan, the Amazon executive who led the search, said: ‘You know, no. I think it was rewarding for us internally.’”Meanwhile, the NYT editorial board supports New York officials’ efforts to lure Amazon back: “Progressives shouldn’t stand athwart progress, yelling stop.”More: How Hollywood disrupted Jeff Bezos’s life as Amazon sought to disrupt its business. And Mr. Bezos’s security chief is said to be preparing a 90-page report accusing the National Enquirer’s parent company of running its exposé to curry favor with Saudi investors.A collection of the top tech minds in the country assembled at the NYT’s New Work Summit last week in Half Moon Bay, Calif. Here’s what some of them had to say about the future of artificial intelligence regulation:“The idea that these companies who are not accountable to us or elected by us should get to decide sort of the new safeguards of society, that seems like the wrong way to do it,” said Sam Altman, the president of Y Combinator.“We think democratically elected governments should be in the business of regulating technology companies — not the other way around,” Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president, said.“We’re fans of regulation when it’s smart regulation,” Kent Walker, Google’s chief legal officer, said. “What do I mean by that? So, regulation that starts out with a really crisp definition of what’s the problem you’re trying to solve? That is then narrowly tailored to solve that problem and minimize blowback and side effects.”“I’ve found the European Commission to be very well-reasoned and thoughtful in their approach, and really putting consumers first,” Evan Spiegel of Snapchat said. “The more that companies can align with the government to do what’s right for customers, I think everyone will win there.”A fierce lobbying battle has arisen over an unlikely product, according to the NYT: human excrement, and more specifically its use in treating disease.• The skirmish is over the future of fecal microbiota transplants, a therapy that “transfers fecal matter from healthy donors into the bowels of ailing patients, restoring the beneficial works of the community of gut microbes that have been decimated by antibiotics.” The treatment is especially effective in treating Clostridioides difficile, also known as C. diff, a debilitating bacterial infection.• “At the heart of the controversy is a question of classification: Are the fecal microbiota that cure C. diff a drug, or are they more akin to organs, tissues and blood products that are transferred from the healthy to treat the sick?”• Most material currently used in fecal transplants comes from OpenBiome, a public stool bank in Massachusetts. But the F.D.A. has recently increased oversight that raised prices.• Several drug companies, including Rebiotix and Seres Therapeutics, have raised tens of millions of dollars from investors and begun lobbying the F.D.A. (A critic told the NYT they were the “poop drug cartel.”) The market for drug-based treatments of C. diff is estimated to eventually reach about $1.7 billion.• “At stake, some researchers says, is the future of pioneering therapies that harness the human microbiome — the trillions of organisms that colonize the body and are increasingly seen as critical for healthy brain development and immune function.”Ray Kelvin, the founder and C.E.O. of the British fashion chain Ted Baker, resigned amid accusations of inappropriate behavior.Fabio Schvartsman “temporarily” stepped down as Vale’s C.E.O. in the wake of a deadly dam burst in Brazil.KKR hired Kate Richdale, most recently the chairwoman of Goldman Sachs’s investment banking team in Asia, as its head of strategy and business development in the same region.John Havens stepped down as chairman of the hedge fund Napier Park Capital after being charged in a prostitution ring bust.The insurer Aviva named Maurice Tulloch, the head of its international operations, as its next C.E.O.Deals• Lyft publicly filed for an I.P.O. on Friday, revealing surging revenues but nearly $1 billion in losses. (NYT)• Nissan executives reportedly told Carlos Ghosn that the Japanese government would back their bid to block his proposed merger of the carmaker with its corporate sibling, Renault. (FT)• Margrethe Vestager, the E.U.’s competition commissioner, warned governments of the “consequences” of easing merger regulations. (FT)• The hedge fund BlueMountain nominated 12 candidates for the board of PG&E, including the lawyer Kenneth Feinberg and a veteran Democratic politician, Phil Angelides. (NYT)• The maker of Instant Pot agreed to merge with the parent company of Pyrex and CorningWare. (WSJ)Politics and policy• President Trump publicly criticized Jay Powell, the chair of the Federal Reserve, over the weekend. Mr. Powell’s European counterparts aren’t getting much love from their governments, either. (Bloomberg)• American intelligence officials increasingly emphasize economic, not national security, issues in their briefings to the president. (NYT)• A new poll showed that Americans don’t like socialism but want the federal government to become more active in helping them. (CNBC)• Representative Jerry Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said he will request documents from more than 60 people, including Donald Trump Jr. and the C.F.O. of the Trump Organization. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May promised £1.6 billion, or about $2.1 billion, to poorer areas of Britain — and was quickly criticized for trying to buy the support of opposition lawmakers. (Bloomberg)• Pro-Brexit lawmakers outlined three conditions that Mrs. May must meet to win their support for her Brexit deal. (Times of London)Tech• France plans to introduce a five percent digital tax on the revenue of about 30 internet giants. (Bloomberg)• Uber’s chief legal officer is trying to clean up the company before it goes public. (NYT)• North Korean hackers hit over 100 American and allied targets as President Trump met with Kim Jong-un last week. (NYT)• Amazon reportedly plans to open a chain of grocery stores in the U.S. that would be separate from its Whole Foods brand. (WSJ)• Tesla says it will unveil a new S.U.V., the Model Y, on March 14. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Carlos Ghosn’s lawyer is using a new legal strategy, and thinks it’s possible the auto executive could “be released in the near future.” (Reuters)• What it’s like to work as a comment moderator on a far right website. (NYT Op-Ed)• Wells Fargo reached a $240 million settlement with its U.S. shareholders over the creation of millions of unauthorized customer accounts by its employees. (Reuters)• The first American spacecraft capable of carrying astronauts since the retirement of the space shuttles launched Saturday, and successfully docked with International Space Station last night. (NYT, BBC)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe ShiftBy Kevin RooseOver the past few months, a fierce debate has erupted in Silicon Valley over whether large technology companies like Amazon, Google and Microsoft should join forces with the United States military, along with agencies like Immigration and Customs Enforcement.The debate has largely been conducted along ethical lines.On one side are tech executives and many government officials, who argue that at a time when advanced technologies like artificial intelligence and machine learning are poised to reshape top issues like drone warfare or border security, American tech giants have a patriotic duty to pitch in.Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, summed up this view last year: “If big tech companies are going to turn their back on the U.S. Department of Defense, this country is going to be in trouble.”On the other side are groups of employees at those companies, including many anti-Trump progressives, who don’t want their tools to be used for drone warfare, immigrant detention and other projects they consider immoral. This side took a stand at Microsoft last month when a group of employees wrote an open letter to the company’s top executives demanding that they abandon an Army contract that would adapt HoloLens, the company’s augmented-reality headsets, for use by soldiers on the battlefield.“We did not sign up to develop weapons, and we demand a say in how our work is used,” the Microsoft employees wrote.This is a debate worth having. But there is a more pragmatic question swirling around it, one surprisingly few people are asking. Namely: Could Big Tech’s decision to pursue controversial defense and law enforcement contracts be a financial mistake?As business deals, some of these contracts seem like no-brainers. Microsoft’s HoloLens deal is worth about $500 million — less than 1 percent of the company’s 2018 revenue, but a meaningful sum nonetheless. Amazon, IBM, Microsoft and Oracle are all battling over a Defense Department cloud-computing contract, known as Project JEDI, that will be worth as much as $10 billion to the winning bidder.But these contracts may be less lucrative than they appear. And, in fact, they could come with enormous hidden costs in the form of damaged reputations, recruiting problems and customer boycotts that could swamp any short-term gains.To explain why, let’s consider one of the most notorious military contracts of the past century.In 1965, Dow Chemical, a Michigan-based chemicals manufacturer, was awarded a $5 million Department of Defense contract to produce napalm, a highly incendiary chemical used by American troops during the Vietnam War.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester and Clare Toeniskoetter, and edited by Lisa TobinShould Big Tech partner with the Pentagon? We examine a cautionary tale.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Across Silicon Valley, tech companies are pursuing contracts with the U.S. military. Kevin Roose on a cautionary tale of where that can lead. It’s Wednesday, March 6.kevin rooseSo I’m a tech columnist. I spend a lot of time talking with and looking at the big tech companies and where they’re going. And one of the most interesting threads that’s come up in the past year or so is this question of how Silicon Valley should engage with the government, and with the military, specifically. And I think we’re at a point right now where the government is saying, we want the things that you’re building. We want you to be part of our modernization efforts.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseAnd within some of these companies there’s a growing divide between the management of the companies and what they want for their business, and some of the people actually building this technology — the engineers who are working on these advanced systems that are in hot demand by the military and other government agencies. And we just saw this play out in a pretty meaningful way at Microsoft.michael barbaroWhat happened there, exactly? So last year Microsoft signed a contract with the Department of Defense to use a technology called HoloLens in the Army.archived recordingGood morning, everyone. A few years ago, we started asking ourselves, could we make things so simple that technology would just disappear?kevin rooseAnd HoloLens was originally developed — it’s kind of like a headset for augmented reality.archived recordingCould we place your digital content right into your world, right into your life, with more reality than ever before?kevin rooseI saw a demo of this a couple years ago, and they were touting it as the next generation of gaming.michael barbaroMm-hmm.archived recordingWelcome to a new era of Windows. Welcome to Windows Holographic.kevin roosePeople were wearing HoloLens, and you would be swinging your imaginary sword at imaginary monsters. But it all looked like it was happening right there in your living room.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseAnd last year, Microsoft signed a contract to develop HoloLens technology for use on the battlefield — to give soldiers the ability to wear these headsets and get information about their surroundings, and to increase the lethality of the soldiers on the battlefield.michael barbaroSo this technology will specifically be deployed within the military so that American soldiers are better at killing the enemy?kevin rooseThat’s the way it’s described in the contract, yes.michael barbaroAnd so, I’m guessing that this was something that Microsoft engineers objected to?archived recordingAnd then there’s Microsoft. They’re receiving backlash from their own employees over new groundbreaking technology.kevin rooseWell, a few of them did. But they did it pretty vocally.archived recordingYeah, so more than 150 Microsoft employees signed a letter demanding that the company cancel a $480 million contract to build a HoloLens for the Pentagon saying they, quote —kevin roose“Dear Satya Nadella and Brad Smith: We are a global coalition of Microsoft workers, and we refuse to create technology for warfare and oppression.” And it goes on. And basically, they argue that this crossed the line into weapons development — that this was basically taking something that they had built, and turned it into something that was designed to help soldiers on the battlefield kill other soldiers.michael barbaroNot what they decided to do.kevin rooseRight. Not their intent, not what they were told they were going to be working on, and not something they were comfortable with.michael barbaroAnd Kevin, thinking about this, it’s hard to imagine that the U.S. military would not use U.S. technology, American-made technology like this, in warfare. That seems inevitable, doesn’t it?kevin rooseWell, right. I mean as long as there has been a U.S. tech industry, there’s been a partnership with the U.S. government and with the military. I mean, the original internet came out of a Defense Department project.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseAnd since then, lots of advances in technology have been spurred by this collaboration between the Pentagon and Silicon Valley. And a lot of these companies already provide technology to the military. I mean, a lot of military computers run Windows’s operating system. But this was a bridge too far for these employees. They say, we’re O.K. basically providing general-use technology, the same stuff that you and I could go and buy. But the specific development of our technology for use in this specific case crosses a line for us, and we don’t want to be a part of it.michael barbaroSo Kevin, what’s interesting to you about this story?kevin rooseWell, I’m interested in the ethical debate around the use of artificial intelligence and other technologies. But I’m also a business reporter. I think this is a decision that is not just being made along ethical lines. These companies are also thinking about their businesses and the amount of money and the profitability of developing these systems for the military. So I wanted to look at it along those lines, as well. Let’s just bracket the ethical discussion for a second and say, does this make financial sense?michael barbaroWell, not just bracket it, right? Isn’t a company often going to make decisions about moral dilemmas based on the implications to their finances?kevin rooseExactly. These are not philanthropies or think tanks. These are for-profit corporations that generally operate on a cost-benefit calculation. And so just on that plane, I wanted to see, does this make sense for them? [MUSIC] And so, I did a little bit of digging, and I went back about 50 years in history, and I found an example of a company that sold something to the military and later came to regret it.michael barbaroWhich was what?kevin rooseIt’s the case of Dow Chemical. In 1965, Dow Chemical is this small, little-known chemicals company based in Michigan. They make lots of different things — household chemicals, agricultural chemicals.archived recordingNow, at your favorite grocery store, the most amazing food wrap ever developed!kevin rooseThey were probably best known for making Saran Wrap.michael barbaroHeard of it.archived recording (speaker 1)Have you tried Saran Wrap? It really is amazing! And look, Saran Wrap clings like magic!archived recording (speaker 2)Saran Wrap is a product of the Dow Chemical Company.archived recording (speaker 3)[JET PLANES AND EXPLOSIONS] Vietnam. United States helicopter gunships backed up ground forces in a strong assault on a Viet Cong position —kevin rooseMeanwhile, the Vietnam War is happening. And in 1965, Dow Chemical wins a contract with the Department of Defense to produce a new chemical called napalm B. And napalm, which is a highly flammable gel that binds and sticks to things and then burns them — had been in use. But napalm B was the new formulation, and the military was very excited in using this in Vietnam.archived recordingTroops followed up the advantage gained by the air support to knock out the V.C.kevin rooseThey thought it had a lot of promise on the battlefield. It was hard to contain and hard to put out. It was a very effective form of weaponry — a very horrible form of weaponry. And it produced very, very bad burns on people. They would basically be burned alive. And so, there’s not much noise about this for the first little while. And then Americans start seeing images from the Vietnam War. And for a lot of people, this is their first time seeing the effects of napalm.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseMost famously, there’s this photograph — you’ve probably seen it. It won the Pulitzer Prize. It is a photograph of a 9-year-old girl who’s been badly burned by a napalm weapon.archived recording (martin luther king jr.)So far we may have killed a million of them, mostly children.kevin rooseAnd it sort of shocks the American public, and it galvanizes the anti-war movement.archived recording (martin luther king jr.)What do they think as we test out our latest weapons on them, just as the Germans tested out new medicine and new tortures in the concentration camps of Europe?archived recording[CROWDS CHANTING] No more napalm! No more napalm! No more napalm! No more napalm!kevin rooseAnd they decide to go after the use of napalm by U.S. armed forces. And the way that they do that is by going after Dow Chemical.archived recording[CROWDS CHANTING]archived recording (speaker 1)This is Monday afternoon, November 20, on the San Jose State college campus. What you’re watching is the result of a demonstration that began about an hour ago.kevin rooseThey staged demonstrations outside the company’s headquarters, and they go to dozens of colleges where Dow was recruiting students to come work for them.michael barbaroHm.archived recordingThe professors against the war and the Students for a Democratic Society had marched in front of the administration building to protest the recruitment on this campus by Dow Chemical Company of employees.kevin rooseAnd they protest the recruiting sessions. They have signs like “Dow deforms children,” “Dow deals death.”archived recordingThey’re not allowing anyone in. Like, the only people they’re allowing in are those people that are connected with Dow. [PROTESTERS SHOUTING]kevin rooseMy favorite story from this period is that the Dow recruiters — the people that would go to campus to talk to the students — they would get locked up in classrooms. They would get, like, held hostage by the activists. And at one point, one of the recruiters got so used to this that he started bringing a sandwich in his briefcase, so that if the inevitable happened and he got locked in a room with a bunch of angry protesters —michael barbaroHe would survive the day.kevin rooseHe would at least have lunch.michael barbaroSo this sounds like a complete corporate nightmare — that your company is so associated with war and with death, and not with the household product that you make — Saran Wrap.kevin rooseRight. And Dow was particularly offended by this because napalm was a very small part of its business. I mean, it accounted, I think, for a half of 1 percent of its annual sales. And yet it had sort of come to take over its corporate identity. So there was some internal discussion, there were some debates within the company and at the board level about what to do, whether to stop manufacturing napalm. And there were lots of reasons for that. I mean, there were customer boycotts. They did take a financial hit. And they had to do a lot to counter their corporate reputation as a warmonger. But what they really worried about was recruiting. They worried that on these visits to college campuses they weren’t going to get the best people. They weren’t going to get the scientists and the engineers who would help them in the years ahead. And as a result, they would have long-term costs, not just financial, but also in terms of what they were missing out on.michael barbaroThe future employee with moral objections to napalm, who doesn’t come work at Dow Chemical and make the next blockbuster product.kevin rooseRight. But ultimately, they decided to stand their ground. They said, we have a duty to produce napalm for the U.S. government. It’s our patriotic obligation, and we can withstand the controversy.michael barbaroDow Chemical feels like such an extreme case, and it feels quite different from what’s going on with these tech companies today.kevin rooseYeah, absolutely. These are not totally comparable. I mean, the Vietnam War, at this point, was extremely unpopular. You had these horrific images coming back. There’s no good use for napalm, right? There’s no pro-social, healthy use for napalm. It’s a weapon. Whereas a lot of these technologies — A.I., facial recognition, image recognition, augmented reality — these can all be used for very productive and healthy things. It’s only when you put them into a certain context that they can be used for harm.michael barbaroAnd that would seem to be the case for most tech companies, right? They are developing products not explicitly for the military. They just happen to be used that way.kevin rooseExactly.archived recordingArtificial intelligence, drones, warfare and Google — it’s a mixture that caused an uproar inside the tech giant, where the early motto was “Don’t be evil.”kevin rooseThere was a big controversy at Google last year, about this military contract known as Project Maven.archived recordingGoogle is developing artificial intelligence to analyze drone video data.kevin rooseAnd this was a Defense Department program that basically used A.I. and image-recognition technology to interpret video images.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseSo the same kind of A.I. that Google would use in Google Photos, or in its self-driving car unit to recognize images out on the road —archived recordingIt would apparently be used as part of a drone program.kevin roose— could be used to, for example, improve the targeting of drone strikes to make drone strikes more accurate, to be able to recognize certain people or certain buildings and be able to direct a drone at that target specifically.michael barbaroAgain, not what Google engineers probably ever thought the technology would be used for.kevin rooseExactly, I mean, they didn’t sign up for that. And some of them didn’t even know that this was happening.archived recordingThousands of Google workers now protesting Google’s involvement in a Pentagon drone program.kevin rooseSo there was a big uproar. There was lots of heated internal meetings.archived recordingAt least 10, maybe 12 employees did resign.kevin rooseSome resignations —michael barbaroWow. People quit the company over it.kevin rooseYeah, people quit the company over it.archived recordingMeantime, thousands of Google employees have signed a letter protesting the company’s participation in an artificial intelligence project by the Pentagon.kevin rooseThere was a petition that was signed by thousands of Google employees.archived recordingQuote, “We believe that Google should not be in the business of war. Therefore we asked that Project Maven be canceled.”kevin rooseCalling for the company to not only not enter into this contract, but to stop making tools of weaponry altogether. And ultimately —archived recordingTech giant Google will end a project with the Pentagon.kevin rooseGoogle bowed to the pressure. They pulled the contract. They said they wouldn’t renew it. They put out a statement saying, we’ll still work with the military on other projects, but we’re not going to manufacture weapons and weapons-related technology. And that seemed to quiet the unrest. [MUSIC]michael barbaroI feel like people would be surprised that a huge tech company like Google would back down like that.kevin rooseYeah, I mean, it does speak to the difference between a conventional contractor like Dow Chemical and these tech companies. I think there are three main differences there. The first is that these companies are beloved. They have loyal followings and they don’t want to do anything to upset that. The second is that these companies are very idealistic. And in Silicon Valley, this is a big deal. Companies market themselves not just as profitable enterprises, but as humanitarian projects. And anything that compromises that hurts them.michael barbaroRight. World-changers.kevin rooseTotally. And I think the biggest difference is that employees at these companies — especially the engineers who work on very specialized projects like A.I. development — have a ton of leverage, because there are not very many of them, they make a ton of money, and they’re really hard to recruit. If a couple of chemical engineers walk out of Dow Chemical in protest, they can probably find some more where that came from. But if hundreds or thousands of A.I. engineers are upset about a project that Google is working on, that’s a real threat to their business. It doesn’t take many people staging a protest, or threatening to walk out to really get the attention of senior leadership.michael barbaroSo these three differences that you just laid out explain why Dow didn’t back down, despite images of dying children affected by their products, whereas Google did back down, long, long before anything like that happened to it.kevin rooseRight. And I want to be clear: What happened at Google was the exception, not the rule. This is not happening in any vast quantity across the tech industry. At Microsoft, for example, they came right out and said, we appreciate the objections of this small group of employees. They can move elsewhere in the company if they want, but we’re committed to seeing this contract through. And they’ve defended themselves by saying, we have a patriotic duty to provide technology to the military. We think that we can advocate for the ethical use of technologies like AI if we’re at the table in these discussions. And they say that basically, these technologies could be good. These could save lives on the battlefield. The army has said it wants to use HoloLens not just for combat training, but for things like measuring vital signs, and monitoring soldiers for concussions, and having some sort of hearing protection on people’s ears. So those are the kinds of arguments they’re making to justify staying in these contracts.michael barbaroSo the argument here being that engineers who came to these companies to do good, having their technology used by the military does not necessarily mean not doing good.kevin rooseYeah, I mean, that’s one of the arguments that they’re making, is that, basically, if the U.S. military doesn’t have the best technology available on the market, our adversaries will, and we will be endangered as a result.michael barbaroI guess the question is, do the engineers buy that argument?kevin rooseWell, some of them probably do. But as we’ve seen, a number of them don’t. [MUSIC]michael barbaroSo Kevin, we started by talking about this intersection of the moral and the financial as these tech companies navigate this question of, should they work with the military? What’s your understanding in Silicon Valley about how these companies are thinking about that?kevin rooseSo I think a lot of these companies have really shifted their view on this in the last couple of years. A lot of Silicon Valley companies used to just think of themselves as toolmakers, right? We build this stuff, and we put it out into the world, and people use it. And our responsibility, basically, stops at the moment of sale.archived recording (mark zuckerberg)To me, entrepreneurship is about creating change, not just creating companies.kevin rooseAnd now, I think we’re seeing that these companies are being held responsible by the public and by their own employees, not just for the tools they’re building, but for how they’re being used in the world. And this is not just about the military.archived recordingAt this hour some 300 programmers are threatening to leave Microsoft unless the tech giant drops its contract with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, known as ICE.kevin rooseI mean, also, companies are being scrutinized for working with ICE or working with law enforcement.archived recordingAn Amazon worker is pushing the company to stop selling facial recognition technology to law enforcement.kevin rooseSocial media companies are being held responsible for bad things that happen on their platforms.archived recordingFacebook defending Alex Jones this morning, saying the platform will continue to allow the video blogger to run video on its site, even as it claims to crack down on fake news.kevin rooseThis is really happening across technology. And as technology embeds itself into every part of our lives, we’re seeing that these companies are having to make new kinds of decisions. It’s not just a dollars-and-cents profit-and-loss calculation anymore. They also have to consider what might happen out in the world once they release these technologies.michael barbaroWhich is another way of saying that the morality element of this is now playing a much bigger role than it has in the past, and perhaps is not beating out financial, but rivaling it?kevin rooseIt’s certainly part of the discussion now in a way it hasn’t been before. It’s not just about how much money we’ll make, or how many resources it will take. It’s about what we’re building, and why we’re building it, and who we’re selling it to. [MUSIC]michael barbaroKevin, thank you very much.kevin rooseThank you for having me.Dow was not known as a defense contractor — in fact, until its Pentagon contract, the business was best known for making industrial chemicals and household plastics like Saran Wrap.But over the next few years, as Americans began seeing gruesome images of South Vietnamese children with horrific napalm burns, the antiwar movement set its sights on the company.Activists boycotted Dow Chemical’s products, staged protests at its recruiting events on college campuses and barraged its executives with accusations of unethical war profiteering. (One demonstration outside the company’s annual shareholder meeting featured signs like “Dow Know-How in Every Drop of Napalm.”) Dow Chemical executives dug in their heels. They claimed that napalm was a small part of the company’s overall business, and that it was the company’s duty to provide necessary materials to the military.But the company’s pleas of patriotism were drowned out by the antiwar opposition. As Robert M. Neer explains in his book “Napalm,” Dow Chemical’s reputation plummeted as a result of its napalm contract. Its recruiting ability suffered, and its marketing department was forced to embark on a long and expensive campaign to win back the public’s trust.“We went from being a company that made Saran Wrap to keep food fresh to a kind of war machine,” the company’s former chief executive Andrew Liveris said in 2006.Dow Chemical stopped making napalm for the military in 1969, just four years after it had begun. But the reputational damage haunted the company for decades. (Dow Chemical merged with DuPont in 2017; the company is still a defense contractor, but it produces mainly agricultural and industrial chemicals.)All told, the $5 million napalm contract most likely cost Dow Chemical billions of dollars. And it was the kind of unforced error that could have been avoided if company executives had listened to early signs of opposition, done some risk analysis and changed course.Today’s biggest tech companies are in a similar spot. Many of them, such as Amazon and Microsoft, are among the most beloved brands in the world. They employ lots of conscientious, idealistic engineers whose skills are highly valuable, giving them considerable leverage in discussions about company values. And they are operating in an era of heightened consumer sensitivity — in which one misstep can tarnish a brand for years.Tech companies aren’t making anything as obviously harmful as napalm. In fact, supporters of these deals argue that some of the technologies being offered to the military, such as image-recognition algorithms that can help better target drone strikes, could save civilian lives.But the truth is that tech companies have absolutely no idea how the government will use their products in the future — and how the political landscape might shift, throwing them into an unwanted spotlight.In some ways, Silicon Valley tech companies face the same choice Dow Chemical faced in 1965: Accept controversial government contracts and risk a damaging backlash, or leave those deals to conventional defense contractors and protect their reputations.Already, there are signs of trouble on the horizon. At Stanford, fliers recently appeared on campus walls urging students not to work for Amazon, Microsoft, Palantir and other companies with reported contracts with ICE and law enforcement agencies. And artificial intelligence experts caution that the stigma of being seen as a war profiteer could repel idealistic recruits for years to come.“Top A.I. talent doesn’t want to work for Lockheed Martin,” said Jack Clark, the policy director of OpenAI, a nonprofit artificial intelligence lab.In fact, in today’s corporate operating environment, turning down controversial military and government contracts could be a selling point.Recently, I talked with Rana el Kaliouby, a co-founder of Affectiva, an “artificial emotional intelligence” start-up. Ms. el Kaliouby, whose software uses A.I. to track human emotions, had several early offers from government agencies, including a venture fund backed by the Central Intelligence Agency, that wanted to use the product to improve their surveillance capabilities.Even though the company needed the money at the time, it turned down the deals. Affectiva has since raised more than $50 million from other, nongovernmental sources, and has made ethical A.I. use a core part of its brand.“We wanted to be trusted,” Ms. el Kaliouby said. “We used the core value of integrity and respecting people’s privacy as a way to weed out use cases.”Take note, tech giants. Turning down controversial military and government contracts won’t doom your business. In fact, in the long run, your shareholders might thank you.Kevin Roose is a columnist for Business and a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. His column, “The Shift,” examines the intersection of technology, business and culture. @kevinroose • FacebookOpinionMargaret O’MaraAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe iPhone app Notes has become the medium of choice for celebrity mea culpas.By Lindsey WeberTo be famous in 2019 one must possess (in addition to talent, or at least popularity) a patina of authenticity and a willingness to admit wrongdoing. Also: an iPhone. Lady Gaga makes for a perfect case study. On Thursday, she sent an apologetic message to her more than 77 million Twitter followers. The singer wanted to let her Little Monsters know that, after renewed criticism of R. Kelly, she had decided to pull a track she had recorded with him in 2013 from streaming music services. “I’m sorry,” she wrote, her words cast against a grayish faux-paper background familiar to Apple users and celebrity news consumers, “both for my poor judgment when I was young, and for not speaking out sooner. I love you.”I stand by anyone who has ever been the victim of sexual assault: pic.twitter.com/67sz4WpV3iHer statement was written using Notes, a free app that is preloaded onto Apple devices for the purpose of storing personal memories and to-do lists. In recent years, though, it has become the medium of choice for celebrity mass communication. The reasons for writing these Notes notes vary, but oftentimes they are mea culpas for public errors. Armie Hammer apologized with a Notes app note for criticizing his peers for posting grief selfies after Stan Lee’s death (“I want to apologize from the bottom of my heart and will be working on my Twitter impulse control”). Kendall Jenner apologized for her clothing line’s insensitive use of the Notorious B.I.G.’s and Tupac Shakur’s likenesses (“we are huge fans of their music”). Logan Paul apologized for videotaping a dead body in Japan (“I intended to raise awareness for suicide and suicide prevention”). Cardi B notably did not apologize for secretly marrying Offset (“at least ya can stop saying i had a baby out of wedlock”). Ariana Grande once apologized for licking a doughnut (“I will strive to be better”).Other public figures who have used Notes to make statements include Taylor Swift, Lena Dunham, Drake, Pete Davidson and Sarah Huckabee Sanders.Part of the medium’s appeal is the ease with which its contents may be shared. Notes app apologies are screenshotted and dispersed, first on Twitter and Instagram, and then in entertainment news reporting. They are embedded into tabloid websites and quoted by magazines, as polished statements coming directly from publicists might be.Zara Rahim, who handled publicity for Vogue before joining The Wing, a women’s co-working space, as its communications director, said that the efficacy of these statements lies not only in their speed but also their appearance. “I can just write this quick note on my Notes app, because it looks like I did it on my phone, have my publicist take a quick glance at it, if I’m smart,” she said, “and then post it directly on my Instagram.”Sometimes statements include grammatical and spelling errors, or profanity, which function (perhaps unwittingly) as rhetorical devices, making the authors seem not only unpretentious but fallibly human. Their notes also frequently employ clichés of spoken apologies: “from the bottom of my heart,” “profoundly,” “I wish I knew then what I know now,” and so on. These tics foster the false sense of intimacy that most social media encourages. Of course, the marks of a direct-from-the source apology may come across as simply impulsive or careless. “The worst Notes app apologies are the ones that clearly were being written stream of consciousness and didn’t get the edit, that were way, way, way too reactive to the point of where there are misspellings,” Allison P. Davis, a pop culture reporter for New York Magazine, said.There are also signs of possible fraudulence. After Taylor Swift said, in a Notes app statement directed at Kanye West and Kim Kardashian West, that she would “very much like to be excluded from this narrative,” people seized on a minute detail of her shared screenshot: the “search” icon in the upper left corner. Its presence suggested that the published note was one of many drafts she had carefully constructed with professional help, thus undercutting her attempt to appear off-the-cuff.The best Notes app statements follow the same guiding principles of any good apology: get in and get out; be direct; don’t try too hard to defend yourself; and (this is a bonus!) maybe say what you’re doing moving forward. “Folks are more likely to give you a second shot if you are just willing to say you made a mistake, and that you are going to do better,” Ms. Rahim said.The brevity of social media pushes most people toward a short and sweet statement. But when 280 characters doesn’t quite cut it, Notes app, or whatever text keeper Androids come with, does the trick. (Jeff Bezos, who has been known to use BlackBerry and Samsung phones, released a divorce announcement this week that appeared to be formatted by a newspaper typesetter.) Sharing a Notes app apology does have its pitfalls. If fans suspect an apology isn’t as heartfelt or genuine as its straight-from-my-personal-device format implies, the entire thing could backfire. But even worse is a completely unapologetic apology. After the music-retreat-for-one-percenters known as Fyre Festival proved to be a scam, Ja Rule, its co-organizer, made sure to relinquish himself of blame: “I truly apologize as this is NOT MY FAULT.” “You want to avoid the Notes app spiral, long and short,” Ms. Rahim said, referring to the age-old tendency to get defensive, blowing out what should be a simple “sorry” into a long and winding tale of excuses.If it seems like the trick to crafting a good Notes app apology isn’t too different from the trick to crafting a regular old apology, that’s because — surprise! — they’re one and the same. A Notes app apology is just written in fear of (or, perhaps, in service of) going viral.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The C.E.O.s of seven huge American banks testified on Capitol Hill yesterday — the first time since 2009 that top Wall Street C.E.O.s have appeared en masse before Congress. Here’s how they responded to a grilling by House Democrats on a variety of issues.Banking rules: The C.E.O.s argued that the financial system is much safer today than it was a decade ago, despite recent easing of regulations.Russia: Brian Moynihan of Bank of America, James Gorman of Morgan Stanley and Mike Corbat of Citigroup all said they had reviewed their account holders for potential Russian money-laundering. Mr. Corbat was the only one to say he “could not comment on ongoing investigations.”Guns: “JPMorgan has refused to adopt a policy to ensure responsible lending to the gun industry, even though you claim that client selection is important,” said Representative Carolyn Maloney. “Will you commit to adopting a formal policy that ensures responsible lending in your bank’s business with the gun industry?” Jamie Dimon responded that JPMorgan has “a very small relationship with gun manufacturers,” and added that he would be willing to consider adopting a formal policy. Mr. Gorman said Morgan Stanley had clamped down on doing business with gunmakers; Citi and Bank of America have already done so.The economy: Asked about the biggest economic threat facing the U.S., Mr. Corbat answered, “Our ability to talk ourselves into the next recession.”Diversity: Not one of the C.E.O.s thought that his successor would be a woman or a person of color.More: Lloyd Blankfein, the former Goldman Sachs C.E.O. who testified at the 2009 hearing, tweeted yesterday, “Boy, I really miss my old job!!!” To curb disinformation and hateful content, Andrew suggests in his latest column that tech giants take a page from the banking industry and make sure they know who they’re doing business with.• “The concept is ‘know your customer’ — or KYC, as it’s called on Wall Street — and it’s straightforward: Given concerns about privacy, security and fraud when it comes to money, no bank is allowed to take on a new customer without verifying its existence and vetting its background.”• “What if social media companies had to verify their users the same way banks do? You’d probably feel more confident that you were interacting with real people and were not just a target for malicious bots.”• “When I broached the idea of applying a ‘know your customer’ principle to their business, several senior executives at social media companies recoiled at the prospect, questioning how they would pull off such a huge feat, especially in emerging markets where many people lack credit cards, and even fixed street addresses.”• But there’s precedent: NextDoor, the social network focused on local communities, requires users to submit a credit card or phone number, which it checks against databases.• A “know your customer” rule could become more important as social networks like Facebook become fully encrypted. Fake users could easily spread misinformation and be harder to stop in an encrypted world — unless there was a way to verify their identities at the outset.More: Facebook says it is expanding its efforts to clamp down on disinformation through steps like expanding fact-checking operations and reducing the reach of groups that share misleading content. It’s also taking steps to minimize unwelcome reminders of dead friends on its network.The ride-hailing giant has told some investors that its forthcoming market debut could value it at up to $100 billion. It’s the first sign from the company about how big its I.P.O. will be.Uber told holders of some convertible bonds that its stock could be valued at $48 to $55 a share. That translates into a valuation of about $90 billion to $100 billion, including the $10 billion it plans to raise during the I.P.O.That’s below the $120 billion that bankers had predicted last year, prompting some commentators to wonder whether Lyft’s struggles in the public markets had forced Uber to lower its aims. (Shares in the smaller ride-hailing company are now down nearly 17 percent from their I.P.O. price.)The big question for Uber, along with many of the other tech companies going public this year: How long will investors tolerate losses? Earlier this year, Uber disclosed that it lost $842 million in the last three months of 2018 alone. And the company acknowledges it will lose money for a long time, though it plans to show a path to profits.We expect to learn more about Uber’s I.P.O. later today, when the company plans to publish a prospectus for the stock sale. Its shares are expected to begin trading next month.More: Uber, Pinterest and other unicorns are reportedly worried about their existing shareholders’ lock-up agreements, which prevent them from selling for several weeks after an I.P.O.Less than 48 hours before Britain’s scheduled departure, the E.U. last night extended the exit deadline until Oct. 31, Stephen Castle and Steven Erlanger of the NYT write.It took nine hours for European leaders to agree on the delay. The six-month extension is more than the three months that the British prime minister, Theresa May, had asked for — and that President Emmanuel Macron of France had pushed for — but shorter than the year that some E.U. leaders favored.The delay gives Britain time to get its ducks in a row. The European Council president, Donald Tusk, urged the U.K., “Please do not waste this time.” Mrs. May acknowledged that there would be “huge frustration” back home over the extension, but said she would again seek to persuade lawmakers to back her deal. The extension could be cut short if she manages to do so.But “the path ahead still resembles a minefield, dotted with explosive issues like a possible attempt to topple Mrs. May, a general election or a second Brexit referendum — or some combination of the three,” Mr. Castle and Mr. Erlanger write. “Most immediately, Mrs. May is likely to face calls to step down, and potential successors are already trying to raise money and advertise their credentials.”Don’t rule out another extension. At a news conference last night, Mr. Tusk told journalists, “Our wish and hope is the U.K. will be ready with a final solution at the end of October — but I’m too old to exclude another scenario.”American Media Inc., which owns the tabloid, said yesterday that the Enquirer is on the block. And a deal could be reached within days, Ed Lee, Andrew and Ben Protess of the NYT report.American Media is led by David Pecker, who helped silence a woman who said she had an affair with President Trump by buying her story for $150,000 before his 2016 election and never publishing it. Prosecutors who investigated the arrangement gave the company a nonprosecution deal, which requires it to avoid committing crimes for the next several years.But American Media is in a tough spot over The Enquirer’s feud with Jeff Bezos, who says he was threatened by the publication. Mr. Bezos is expected to meet with federal prosecutors this week to discuss his claims. If prosecutors move forward with a case, it could jeopardize American Media’s non-prosecution agreement.The controversy is spurring the sale. American Media’s principal owner is behind the push to sell the tabloid, the NYT reports. That company, the hedge fund Chatham Asset Management, “no longer saw an upside in being associated with The Enquirer.” An unnamed source told the WaPo that American Media’s investors were uncomfortable owning a tabloid involved in supporting Mr. Trump.But the publisher says its business focus has shifted away from tabloids to glossy magazines like Us Weekly and Men’s Journal. “Because of this focus, we feel the future opportunities with the tabloids can be best exploited by a different ownership,” the company said in a statement.The House approved legislation yesterday that seeks to revive so-called net neutrality regulations that the Trump administration overturned in 2017, Cecilia Kang of the NYT writes.• “The legislation would prohibit blocking and throttling web traffic and would categorize broadband as a service open to heavy regulation,” Ms. Kang writes. The 232-to-190 vote effectively supports giving users equal access to content.• “Supporters say the regulation would prevent companies from blocking or slowing the delivery of content like videos.”• “Opponents say it would strap broadband providers like Verizon and Comcast with heavy-handed restrictions, and could lead to price controls.”But the legislation faces long odds in the Republican-led Senate. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, said this week that the legislation would be “dead on arrival.” And earlier this week, the Office of Management and Budget “advised the White House to veto the law if it reached the president’s desk,” Ms. Kang writes.And then there were two. The Pentagon said yesterday that only two candidates remained in its contest to win a $10 billion contract: Amazon and Microsoft.Those were the only companies to meet the “minimum requirements” for the contract, according to the Defense Department. Only one provider will win the huge contract, which will build the main global data repository for U.S. military services and is known as JEDI.The contest had been mired in controversy since Oracle, one of the now-rejected bidders, alleged that an Amazon employee who had worked on JEDI during a stint at the Defense Department had undue influence on the process. A Pentagon spokeswoman said yesterday that the employee had “no adverse impact on the integrity of the acquisition process.”The P.R. firm Gladstone Place Partners has hired Christina Stenson, most recently of the Brunswick Group, as a partner in San Francisco.Deals• U.S. authorities reportedly pressured Pamplona Capital Management, an investment firm backed in part by a Russian billionaire, into selling a stake in the cybersecurity company Cofense over national security concerns. (WSJ)• Barclays’ former investment banking chief, Tim Throsby, reportedly clashed with the bank’s C.E.O., Jes Staley, over profit targets. (FT)• Deutsche Bank reportedly wants more time to consider whether to merge with Commerzbank. (Reuters)• Saudi Aramco’s newly issued bonds have already slipped below their offering price. (FT)• The I.T. services company PagerDuty raised $218 million in its I.P.O., after increasing its price range. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• Gregory Craig, a former White House counsel in the Obama administration, is expected to be charged over his work for Ukraine in a case linked to Robert Mueller’s investigation. (NYT)• The Treasury Department won’t meet a deadline for a House committee’s request for President Trump’s tax returns. (NYT)• Mr. Trump defended his potential nomination of Herman Cain to the Fed. Janet Yellen, the central bank’s former chief, warned that any new members should check their politics at the door. (WSJ)• Senator Bernie Sanders renewed his push for Medicare-for-all legislation. Related: How much would it cost? (NYT, Upshot)• Attorney General William Barr told Congress that the Justice Department will look into potential “spying” into the 2016 Trump campaign. (NYT)Boeing• The F.A.A. didn’t review modifications that Boeing made to anti-stall software for the 737 Max 8 jet after an initial safety review. (NYT)• The transportation secretary, Elaine Chao, defended the F.A.A.’s delayed grounding of the Boeing jets. (WSJ)Trade• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that the U.S. and China had agreed on a trade deal enforcement mechanism. (CNBC)Tech• Disney is expected to reveal details about its streaming service, called Disney Plus, to investors later today. (WSJ)• The NYT has launched the Privacy Project to answer some of the biggest questions in our digital lives: Does privacy matter? What do companies know, and how do they know it? And what can we do about it? (NYT)• Over 3,500 Amazon employees urged the company to do more on climate change. Others have been listening to audio clips from users’ utterances to Alexa — and sharing amusing ones in an internal chat room. (NYT, Bloomberg)• A new bill in Congress would force tech companies to evaluate their algorithms for bias. (Verge)• Ads could be coming to Google Maps. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• The head of the I.R.S. said that parents in the college admissions scandal could face big tax bills. (Bloomberg)• Automakers are preparing for regulatory chaos and a divided U.S. car market when the Trump administration rolls back emissions standards. (NYT)• JetBlue will start operating flights to London. (NYT)• Minutes from the last Fed meeting suggest a growing belief at the central bank that there is little need to change rates this year. (WSJ)• Why investors need more transparency into how C.E.O. pay is linked to performance. (WSJ op-ed)• Julian Assange was taken into police custody this morning after being evicted from the Ecuadorean Embassy in London. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article did not include the full context of a question to Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase’s chief executive, about the bank’s policies with regard to lending to the gun industry, and of Mr. Dimon’s response. The article has been revised to include that context.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Do you feel like you can afford to live in California?If you said no to that question, you’d be in good company: 43 percent of Californians would agree with you.The one part of the state where they’d be less likely to feel the crunch? The Bay Area — land of some of the nation’s most crushing housing and child care costs — where 65 percent of registered voters said, yes, they feel as if they can afford to live here.Still, 77 percent of Californians acknowledged the state’s housing crisis, including 85 percent in the Bay.And that’s compared with 52 percent of L.A. County residents who said they felt as if they could afford to live in the Golden State and 53 percent of Inland and Valley residents.Those are a few findings from Quinnipiac University’s first California-specific poll.Quinnipiac is known for its national election polling, as well as a source for public opinions in states like New York, New Jersey, Florida and Ohio. But until now, not California.Doug Schwartz, director of the Quinnipiac University Poll, said that’s mostly a function of momentum.Tim Malloy, assistant director of the poll, said the university had always had its eye on the West.“For a long time, we’ve been talking about it,” he said. “The last several months, there’s been a confluence of issues — the wall, immigration, global warming, climate, housing home prices and potential presidential candidates — it’s got everything.”California, Mr. Malloy said, is a microcosm of the country.Still, he said, he was a little surprised by some of the results.For instance, one number that got a bit of attention: While 58 percent of Californians said they’d be excited if Senator Kamala Harris became the Democratic nominee for president, only 40 percent said she’d make a good president.“She’s very, very well-known,” Mr. Malloy said. And if people would be excited for her candidacy, “why the heck wouldn’t she make a good president?”Mr. Schwartz said one more statistic that struck him as curious was that 43 percent of voters said forest mismanagement was more responsible for the severity of wildfires than climate change. The same percentage said the opposite — that they thought climate change was more responsible than forest mismanagement.Check out the rest of the results here.(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Pacific Gas and Electric submitted its newly required plan to reduce wildfires. The troubled utility said it would cut power during dry and windy weather more often, trim more trees along power lines and spend as much as $2.3 billion on the efforts. [The New York Times]• And in other woes for PG&E, the gas pipeline that shot a massive flame into a San Francisco street on Wednesday was one of numerous lines in the city that can’t be cut off automatically. One expert said it shouldn’t have taken as long as it did to get the fire under control. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• The Richmond-San Rafael Bridge reopened after closing abruptly because large chunks of concrete were tumbling off it and onto passing vehicles. [The Mercury News]• Liberal Democrats made their formal call for a “Green New Deal,” which the Republican National Committee derided as a “socialist wish list.” But Democratic presidential hopefuls like Senator Kamala Harris leaned into the idea. [The New York Times]• In order to cover its promised pay for some Amazon delivery contractors, the company dipped into their tips. [The Los Angeles Times]• Residents of Fresno’s poorest neighborhood thought high-speed rail could transform it. But now they’re worried it could be another false promise. [The Center for Public Integrity]• Who is Gavin de Becker, Jeff Bezos’ longtime security chief? He’s the product of a childhood full of the violence and fear he’s now paid to shield others from. And he grew up among the Hollywood elite. [The New York Times]• Frank Robinson, a Hall of Fame slugger and the first black manager in major league baseball, died at home in Los Angeles on Thursday. He grew up in Oakland and managed the San Francisco Giants. [The New York Times]• Read the strange, sad tale of a young woman who moved from Indiana to California to work in cannabis and followed two hackers to her death. [Buzzfeed]• It’s been raining and snowing in California. That means it’s boom time for the state’s mountain resorts. [The New York Times]• Watch this Anatomy of a Scene from “Velvet Buzzsaw,” which is supposed to be a sendup of the L.A. art world. [The New York Times]Somehow it’s almost Valentine’s Day already.The gift and dining guides are trickling out. So are the sweet stories, like this one, about a Bakersfield couple who will get married next month at age 90 and 89.The two were high school sweethearts in 1944 before they went their separate ways, lived separate lives, raised separate sets of children. But then, as The Bakersfield Californian reported, not long after Earle Murie lost his wife of 67 years, Laurette Ellis called to wish him a happy birthday.And just like that, their new life together started.If you’re looking for love stories that involve more 21st century concerns, The Times, of course, has its tiny love stories. They come from all over. But I’d love to read about uniquely California love. So if you have a tiny California love story — 100 words or less — send it to CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCOLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. — Virgin Galactic's goal to fly tourists into space as early as this summer is about 12 years later than initially promised by its founder, British billionaire Sir Richard Branson.But many of its customers, including Gisli Gislason, aren't sweating it.Right up there with a few minutes in space on Gislason’s bucket list is his time on earth with other space enthusiasts and Branson, a fellow adrenaline junkie known as much for his globe-trotting stunts as for starting his own airline.“It’s more than just a trip to space, it’s a huge, ongoing event,” said Icelandic ticket holder Gislason, who has a Virgin Galactic logo tattooed on his arm and bought his ticket to space in 2010. “I’ve already got what I paid for, so I’m just in for a bonus,” he added.Gislason's experience is no accident.Since its early days, Virgin Galactic specifically set out to win customer loyalty, knowing its attempt to become the world’s first commercial spaceline would likely see its share of setbacks. So featuring its top salesman Branson, the company prioritized exclusive experiences for its “future astronauts,” building a community that has stayed loyal through years of pushed deadlines and a fatal 2014 crash. (For an interactive version of this story, click https://tmsnrt.rs/2Id1QMH)While waiting for their trip, some since 2004, Virgin ticket holders have been busied with treats on earth: from a custom-created solar eclipse festival in Idaho and test-flight viewings in California’s Mojave Desert to spaceship-shaped cufflinks at Christmas and group excursions to Branson's private island in the Caribbean, where they can play tennis with the famous entrepreneur and swap design ideas for the spaceflight around a campfire. “One of our astronauts once said to me, ‘Don’t fly to space, we’re thoroughly enjoying spending all this time going to the game reserve in Africa or Necker Island,’” Branson told Reuters in an exclusive interview.“That long, drawn out foreplay can be pretty good, the orgasm is quite quick,” he said, laughing. Ticket holders pay for some of these particularly high-end events, but just cover the travel for others.“That was a compelling part of the package,” said Mark Rocket, a New Zealander who changed his name nearly 20 years ago and signed up with Virgin Galactic in 2006. “It’s not just about those few minutes in space.”More than 600 people from 58 countries have put down a deposit for a 90-minute flight priced at $250,000, up from $200,000 in 2013. The first 100 “founders” will partake in a lottery to determine who gets to fly sooner rather than later. The company expects to increase the frequency of the flights as they build up their space fleet over time. It has collected about $80 million in ticket holder deposits, money which CEO George Whitesides said the company does not use for spaceship development. That funding instead comes largely from the Virgin Group and Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Investment Group. Other than stating Branson himself will be on the first scheduled flight, the company has not disclosed which ticketholders will go first – though Branson is considering the possibility of some customers jumping the line for the right price to help pay the bills. “There is a market out there we believe who would be willing to pay a million dollars to go on an earlier flight, and we’ve got a few slots at that sort of price,” Branson told Reuters.Signed-up “future astronauts” vary from billionaires to people who remortgaged their homes to pay for the ride, from pop star Justin Bieber to Mary Wallace “Wally” Funk, 80, one of the so-called ‘Mercury 13’ women who in the 1960s passed the same punishing tests as male astronauts before the program’s funding was pulled. Virgin’s decision to sign up customers long before it developed and tested a commercial spaceship contrasts with Blue Origin, founded by Jeff Bezos, which will only sell tickets for its suborbital flights after it completes its crewed flight tests.“It would not have been a Virgin company had we squirreled away in secret and built a spaceship without any customers and rolled it out once it was all ready and tested,” said Stephen Attenborough, Virgin Galactic’s commercial director and first full-time employee. Now, after a crewed SpaceShipTwo test flight to space in December 2018 and another carrying a test passenger in February, Virgin Galactic is inching closer to commercial flight. Blue Origin's New Shepard rocket has reached space but its first human spaceflight is still targeted for this year, and it has not determined a ticket price or when it will begin taking reservations.Elon Musk’s SpaceX is also in the race: last year it named Japanese fashion magnate Yusaku Maezawa as its first customer on a voyage around the moon, tentatively scheduled for 2023. “FUTURE ASTRONAUT” STRATEGYVirgin Galactic knew that the price tag for its flights, sold in advance to prove that there was a healthy market when there was a product to deliver, would require providing customer service during the wait.“Right from the start it was obvious to me that if we were going to have customers and we were accepting fairly large deposits, we were going to need to communicate regularly with those people,” said Attenborough.It was not clear how long the wait for tourist spaceflights might be, with Branson’s timelines shifting: In 2004, Virgin was saying it would offer commercial spaceflights by 2007. By 2012, the plan was 2013. As deadlines whizzed by, the future astronaut program evolved, organizing group trips from the Farnborough Air Show to the ‘Cradle of Humankind’ fossil site in South Africa.“That is something that they tapped into and wised up to really early,” said Trevor Beattie, a ticketholder and UK advertising executive working on Virgin Galactic’s marketing campaign. “They created, quite deliberately, a sense of community.”For some, access to Branson himself upped the experience.“Isn’t it funny how the wine tastes better when you know the winemaker?” said Matthew Upchurch, a ticket holder and the CEO of Virtuoso, a travel agency network with exclusive rights to sell Virgin Galactic flights in North America.CRASH TESTS LOYALTY       The biggest test of this carefully built customer community came in 2014, when a test flight crash killed the co-pilot and seriously injured the pilot.“I remember very well waking up very early on Saturday morning after the Friday accident and wondering what would happen to this customer base,” Attenborough said.The company reached out to customers by email on the day of the crash, both before and after the co-pilot’s death was known. There was a blog post from Branson on that day, and later, a video message. A subsequent email from the astronaut relations team said that they planned to call every customer individually.“That was obviously a horrendous day for everybody,” said Branson, adding that his experience of a fatal 2007 Virgin Trains crash in which an elderly woman was killed meant he knew it was important to get to the scene of the test flight accident and “take these things head on.”In the end, Attenborough said only a “handful” of customers asked for refunds.An email seen by Reuters from the astronaut relations team three weeks after the crash said it would soon share a program of upcoming activities and trips. It advertised some “gold-dust-like spots” for a “star Galactic team” at the London Marathon – some of the sponsorship money would now go to a memorial fund for the co-pilot who was killed.After consulting with customers, the company went ahead with one of its planned annual Virgin Galactic trips to Necker Island just a few weeks after the crash.Now, after years of huge setbacks and surreal highs, Virgin Galactic’s ticketholders are edging closer to their flights. For some, space is still the final frontier.“I’ve driven a Bugatti at 253 miles an hour, I’ve skied to the South Pole, swam at the North Pole. I’ve done a lot of stuff and the thing I really want to do is fly in space,” said Jim Clash, an adventure journalist and passenger 610. (Editing by Greg Mitchell and Edward Tobin)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Democratic and Republican negotiators said last night that they had an “agreement in principle” on border security funding that could keep the federal government open.The deal includes $1.38 billion to pay for 55 miles of new fencing, technology and staffing for border protection. It’s not the $5.7 billion that President Trump had demanded to build a 200-mile wall. Democrats waived their demand for limits on detention capacity for immigrants.But there’s no guarantee that it will go through. The House and Senate would have to vote on the pact, and Mr. Trump would have to sign it. “I think everyone will say, ‘Good work,’ ” Representative Kay Granger of Texas, one of the Republican negotiators, said. Still, at a rally in Texas last night, Mr. Trump insisted that he will build a wall. And influential Republican commentators like the Fox News host Sean Hannity called the deal a “garbage compromise.”The remaining alternatives are hugely unattractive. Politico notes that a potential White House plan to redirect unspent federal funds toward the wall would “create a firestorm.” And another government shutdown could hit the U.S. economy and endanger aviation safety.The British prime minister is scheduled to update lawmakers later today on progress in negotiations on withdrawing from the E.U.She has a big favor to ask. Mrs. May is focused on making changes to the so-called backstop in her exit deal, which is designed to prevent a hard border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. She has made little headway. Bloomberg explains her plan for today:• Mrs. May will “update Parliament on the progress of talks with the E.U. and outline a motion she’ll put before M.P.s for debate on Thursday, her office said.”• She “is expected to ask Parliament to restate its demand to remove the backstop from the Withdrawal Agreement and to promise a further vote if she hasn’t brought a renegotiated deal back to Parliament by Feb. 27.”• The aim is “to reassure members from across the House of Commons who are concerned that May is deliberately running down the clock and risking a potentially disastrous no-deal divorce.”But the E.U. still isn’t budging. Its chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, said yesterday that “something has to give on the British side.”Yet Mrs. May could force her plan through Parliament. Bloomberg explains how, though it also admits that “a lot could go wrong.”More Brexit news: Britain had its weakest economic growth in six years last year. It has signed a trade deal with Switzerland, its biggest since the 2016 Brexit referendum. And its government is being sued for awarding a contract for freight shipments after a no-deal Brexit to a ferry company with no boats.The former Fed chairman recently sat down with Ray Dalio of Bridgewater Capital for a wide-ranging conversation, with topics from the state of the U.S. to the principles of good government. Don’t have time to watch? Here are the highlights:On Washington: Mr. Volcker lamented the condition of the U.S. government, repeating past criticisms. “You’ve got presidents who don’t seem to mind either personal behavior or making outrageous statements, true or not,” he told Mr. Dalio. “You have a Congress that’s been unable to function effectively.”On the Civil Service: For the former Fed chairman, an important problem to solve now is how to make government work again appear to be honorable. “Public administration’s a bad word now,” he told Mr. Dalio, leaving important government departments without effective leaders.What Mr. Volcker is doing: He has set up the Volcker Alliance, which is meant to help schools train future government officials. “It’s a great trick,” Mr. Volcker said. “How can you get the expertise and leadership you need and still respect the popular desire?”Optimism about personal finances hasn’t been this high in more than 16 years, according to a study by Gallup.Sixty-nine percent of Americans expect to be better off this time next year. That is “only two percentage points below the all-time high of 71 percent, recorded in March 1998,” according to Gallup. That’s in a survey carried out between Jan. 2 and Jan. 10, in the middle of the government shutdown.Half of respondents say they’re better off than they were a year ago. That figure had been consistently under half since 2007, Gallup says.The optimism is hard to overstate. “Only 11 times in 109 polls stretching back to 1976 have at least half of those polled said they were in better financial shape than they had been a year prior,” Gallup notes. “Only once in 114 polls going back to 1977 have Americans been more optimistic about their personal finances in the coming year than they are today.”“Europe is sleepwalking into oblivion, and the people of Europe need to wake up before it is too late,” George Soros writes in an opinion piece on Project Syndicate:• “Neither our leaders nor ordinary citizens seem to understand that we are experiencing a revolutionary moment, that the range of possibilities is very broad, and that the eventual outcome is thus highly uncertain.”• “The next inflection point will be the elections for the European Parliament in May 2019. Unfortunately, anti-European forces will enjoy a competitive advantage in the balloting.”• “The first step to defending Europe from its enemies, both internal and external, is to recognize the magnitude of the threat they present. The second is to awaken the sleeping pro-European majority and mobilize it to defend the values on which the E.U. was founded.”The firm said yesterday that it would buy Solium Capital, which manages stock paid out to corporate employees, for $900 million. It’s the biggest deal by a major Wall Street firm since the financial crisis — so what’s the rationale?The bank wants in on millennial wealth. Solium’s clients include start-ups, like Instacart and Stripe, which could go public at multibillion-dollar valuations — making some employees very rich.Wall Street approves of the strategy. Analysts at Evercore ISI wrote yesterday that Solium gives Morgan Stanley “a real path towards the organic growth and next generation of clients that many investors have been questioning.” Matthew Klein of Barron’s wrote last week that millennials could hold the key to improving American productivity — and wealth.And banks seem newly hungry for deals. Days before Morgan Stanley’s acquisition, BB&T agreed to buy SunTrust in the biggest bank merger since the 2008 crisis. Banking chiefs seem heartened by loosened regulations on their sector — and eager to capitalize through acquisitions. “We’d like to do more,” James Gorman, Morgan Stanley’s C.E.O., told the WSJ. (And JPMorgan Chase has reportedly considered buying the asset manager WisdomTree, according to Bloomberg.)It’s just eight months until Mario Draghi’s finishes his nonrenewable term as president of the European Central Bank. Choosing his successor is both important and difficult, the WSJ reports:• Investors have trusted Mr. Draghi, the WSJ says, as they navigate “a toxic mix of risks in Europe, from Brexit to trade wars.”• “At least five unofficial candidates appear to be in the running to replace him, according to European officials: two Frenchmen, two Finns and a German. The candidates have very different economic philosophies, and there is no clear front-runner.”• The winner might be chosen to balance the nationalities of the E.U.’s leadership, rather than purely on merit. The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo, chief executive of the Centre for European Policy Studies, a Brussels think tank, on the risks of that. “It’s the most systemically important job in Europe, this man controls the show,” he said. “It can go badly wrong.”WSJ reporters scoured fourth-quarter results from U.S. companies in an attempt to better understand the slowing of China’s economic growth.What they found: Many companies are “struggling with weaker demand from export manufacturers in China, which are pulling back amid fears that trade tensions will worsen,” Austen Hufford and Theo Francis of the WSJ report. “Retailers and other companies catering to Chinese consumers face signs of weakness among the country’s growing middle class. They are buying fewer cars, phones and are traveling less.”The conclusion: “The indications are that slowing growth there is broad, if still modest,” Mr. Hufford and Mr. Francis write.Just half of PG&E’s directors will stand for re-election this year after the utility filed for bankruptcy amid the California wildfires.Colgate-Palmolive named Noel Wallace, its C.O.O., as  chief executive, replacing Ian Cook.GV, the venture capital arm of Alphabet, hired David Schenkein, the former C.E.O. of Agios Pharmaceuticals, as its co-head of life sciences.Apple named Frank Casanova, a longtime iPhone executive, as its first head of marketing for augmented reality.Sony appointed Jim Ryan as C.E.O. of its PlayStation business.Deals• Colony Capital, the investment firm founded by the real estate mogul Tom Barrack, will explore selling assets after an activist hedge fund, Blackwells Capital, took a stake. (Colony)• SoftBank’s Vision Fund led a $940 million investment in Nuro, a driverless delivery start-up. (FT)• Amazon agreed to buy Eero, which makes wireless routers, to advance its smart-home ambitions. (Reuters)• Peloton, which makes video-streaming stationary bikes and treadmills, is reportedly interviewing banks to prepare for an I.P.O. (WSJ)• DoorDash, the delivery start-up, is reportedly in the process of raising $500 million at a $6 billion valuation. (WSJ)• Reddit raised $150 million from Tencent — and its users now fear censorship. (Verge)Politics and policy• President Trump and Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York will meet today to discuss revising a cap on deductions for state and local taxes. (Bloomberg)• Democratic presidential contenders see small donors, rather than traditional wealthy backers, as a test of viability for the 2020 race. (WaPo)• Contrary to popular belief, Mr. Trump’s presidency has hurt America’s gun lobby. (NYT editorial)Trade• President Trump is reportedly eager to meet with President Xi Jinping of China to discuss a trade deal. (Bloomberg)• American tariffs on Chinese goods have reduced the two countries’ trade imbalance — without helping U.S. companies. (Axios)• Chinese investments in Israeli tech companies are raising security concerns. (WSJ)Tech• What’s it like to be a contractor at one of Apple’s less glamorous offices? Not much fun. (Bloomberg)• Mars One Ventures, which promised one-way trips to the red planet, is bankrupt. (Verge)• If New York doesn’t want a new Amazon campus, Newark does. (Bloomberg)• Alphabet and Microsoft are discreetly warning that A.I. could harm their brands. (Wired)The Jeff Bezos saga• The American Media Inc. lawyer who reportedly sought a deal over Mr. Bezos’s private photos was once an Amazon Kindle executive. (WSJ)• American Media reportedly asked the Justice Department whether it needed to register as a foreign agent because of its ties to Saudi Arabia. (WSJ)• The WaPo has found itself in a tricky situation: reporting on its owner’s fight with The National Enquirer, while being a cause of the battle. (NYT)Best of the rest• Could leveraged loans sink the U.S. economy? (FT)• For two years, Goldman Sachs bet on companies with strong balance sheets. Not anymore. (CNBC)• The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says there’s a “mania” for share buybacks, and that he’s worried about the social consequences. (CNBC)• Toys ‘R’ Us is planning a comeback later this year. (NYT)• Is corporate America headed toward an earnings recession? (DealBook)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAbolish bad policy instead. By Will WilkinsonMr. Wilkinson is a contributing opinion writer. Billionaires are in notably bad odor with many people on the left. Socialists have long held that large stores of private wealth are tantamount to violence against those in need. But regular nonradical folks not on the left are fed up, too. Howard Schultz’s potential independent White House bid is simply infuriating, and it’s maddening to feel helplessly tangled in the gilded web of global intrigue emanating from the president, his plutocrat dictator pals and America’s retail overlord, the philandering Jeff Bezos.Thanks at least in part to Bernie Sanders and the sizzling rise of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, this dry wick has met a spark. Enthusiasm for radical leveling is whistling out of the hard-left fringe and blossoming into a mainstream mood.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s policy adviser, Dan Riffle, contends that “every billionaire is a policy failure” (that’s the tagline on his Twitter handle) because “the acquisition of that much wealth has bad consequences” and “a moral society needs guardrails against it.” He’d like to see the 2020 Democratic primary contenders answer a question: Can it be morally appropriate for anyone to be a billionaire? It’s a compelling litmus test. I’d also like to watch would-be Democratic nominees take it. However, I hope that they would stick up for the idea that it can be morally kosher to bank a billion and that the existence of virtuous three-comma fortunes is a sign not of failure but of supreme policy success.The empirical record is quite clear about the general form of national political economy that produces the happiest, healthiest, wealthiest, freest and longest lives. There’s no pithy name for it, so we’ll have to settle for “liberal-democratic welfare-state capitalism.” There’s a “social democratic” version, which is what you get in countries like Sweden, Norway and the Netherlands. And there’s a “neoliberal” (usually English-speaking) version, which is what you get in countries like Canada, New Zealand and the United States.You may prefer one version over the other, but they’re not all that different. And in comparative terms, they’re all insanely great. The typical citizen of these countries is as well-off as human beings have ever been. These places are the historical pinnacle of policy success.But guess what? There are billionaires in all of them. Egalitarian Sweden, an object of ardent progressive adoration, has more billionaires per capita than the United States. Six countries outrank the United States on a well-being index and also have more billionaires per capita.Human Development Index rankBillionairesper capita rank1234567791011121314151617171920NorwaySwitzerlandAustraliaIrelandGermanyIcelandHong KongSwedenSingaporeNetherlandsDenmarkCanadaUnited StatesBritainFinlandNew ZealandLiechtensteinBelgiumJapanAustria841311127265271615101914311444118By The New York Times | Sources: Forbes; United Nations; World BankSo what’s the problem? Preventing billion-dollar hoards guards against the bad consequences of … having the best sort of polity that has ever existed? The progressive idea here is usually that people with vastly more wealth than the common run of citizens wield vastly disproportionate political power and therefore imperil democracy and the equal worth of our basic rights. It’s a worry we’ve got to take seriously, but it’s based more in abstract theorizing than empirical analysis. Inspect any credible international ranking of countries by democratic quality, equal treatment under the law or level of personal freedom. You’ll find the same passel of billionaire-tolerant states again and again. If there are billionaires in all the places where people flourish best, why think getting rid of them will make things go better?It can be tempting to think that there’s no morally decent way to accumulate that much wealth. And it’s true that scads of the filthy rich got that way through theft, exploitation and the subtler corruption of anti-competitive rules in politically rigged markets. (You may have heard of Donald Trump.)But there’s a big moral difference between positive-sum wealth production and zero-sum wealth extraction — a difference that corresponds to a rough-and-ready distinction between the deserving and undeserving rich. The distinction is sound because there’s a proven a way to make a moral killing: improve a huge number of other people’s lives while capturing a tiny slice of the surplus value. Consider Dr. Gary Michelson, a spinal surgeon and inventor worth an estimated $1.8 billion. He lives in Los Angeles. Dr. Michelson holds hundreds of patents on medical devices and procedures that have made spinal surgery more effective. He got rich by making it so that people with spinal injuries could walk again or suffer less debilitating pain.According to William Nordhaus, the Nobel Prize-winning economist, innovators capture about 2 percent of the economic value they create. The rest of it accrues to consumers. Whatever that is, it’s not a raw deal. The accumulation of these innovations over time is the mechanism that drives compounding economic growth, which accounts for a vast improvement over the past 100 years in the typical American standard of living. Some people may have made an ungodly sum in the course of helping make this humanitarian miracle happen, but that’s O.K. This isn’t to say that the deserving rich deserve every penny they get. In a better world, billionaires like Dr. Michelson would probably have less. Policy failure is rife, and it’s bound to account for a portion of even the best-deserved fortunes. Patents, for example, are government-granted monopolies meant to incentivize innovation. But the evidence suggests we’ve overshot the mark, and the pace of innovation would quicken, and many of America’s biggest fortunes would shrink, if patent protections were weakened.Along similar lines, few of us object to J.K. Rowling making a mint entertaining billions of kids (and adults), but much of her net worth is because of merchandising profits built on unjustifiably ironclad intellectual property rights, which have deprived billions of the joys of knockoff Harry Potter toys and stories. Nearly every real-world market is defined to some extent by rules that limit competition, concentrate wealth and leave the rest of us poorer than we might have been. A small number of people have too much housing wealth because we’ve made it too hard to build. Financial innovation makes new markets and improves the allocation of resources, but Wall Street tycoons also reap huge rewards from winning wasteful arbitrage arms races, skimming off transactions and nickel-and-diming consumers with inscrutable fees.Fixing these policy failures might create a system that produces fewer billionaires. But that shouldn’t be the point. It might also produce more morally worthy 10-figure fortunes. That’s great, because we should be aiming to channel entrepreneurial energy into productive wealth creation that lifts us all up and away from the extraction of wealth through unjust rules that close off opportunity and deprive us of the blessings of innovation.There is a possible America where routes to extractive wealth have been closed and barriers to productive wealth have been cleared; where the wealthiest have somewhat less, and the rest of us have a great deal more. In this America, our economy and democracy are more equitable and less corrupt, and the least well-off fare better than ever. We should dearly want to live there, in a place where, if you can manage to become one, it’s more than “morally appropriate” to be a billionaire.Will Wilkinson is a contributing opinion writer and the vice president for research at the Niskanen Center.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhy would a rich man cut corners on the most intimate of investments?By Jennifer WeinerContributing Opinion WriterI’ve been thinking lately about one of my relatives, now of blessed memory. This woman was gracious and kind. Her clothes and makeup were always impeccable; her home was well decorated and welcoming. When you went over for tea, the cups would be porcelain, and the utensils would be sterling silver. The sweetener would come in white paper packets, embossed with the Golden Arches, most likely pilfered from the nearby McDonald’s where she and her girls would go for coffee, and woe betide the server who failed to offer them the senior discount.This was a woman who could afford to buy a bag of sugar. But she wouldn’t dream of it. Maybe it was Depression-era thrift, or maybe it was the tiny thrill of a tiny theft, the minute dopamine rush you get when you do something that isn’t exactly stealing but isn’t entirely legitimate either.Her quirk was far from unique. We’ve all seen (or maybe even carried) pocketbooks full of stolen Sweet’N Low or used a guest bathroom where the towels were Egyptian cotton, the countertops were Carrara marble and the soap was a tiny rectangle from a Holiday Inn Express.The rich are different. Some of them drop six figures to get their children into a college where they didn’t earn a spot.And some of them seem to be cheap about the weirdest things. There’s our president, who likes to brag about his tremendous fortune and who has twice served an assortment of fast food to championship college football players who came to call. Maybe Mr. Trump, a fast-food aficionado himself, believed that the spread was exactly what the athletes wanted. And maybe it was.But we know that Mr. Trump has bragged about underpaying contractors who he has said have done shoddy work and has cut workers’ benefits and salaries, being cheap in a way that causes pain and suffering.We also know that he pretty much lives to troll. So it’s hard for me not to read the bargain-menu feast as intended, at the very least, to enrage the libs and, as a bonus, keep costs down, too.But maybe Mr. Trump’s behavior makes a kind of sense when you put it in the context of the billionaire thrift-boast, the 0.001 percent variation on the humblebrag. See, for example, Warren Buffett and his reported $18 haircuts, or how he never pays more than $3.17 for breakfast. Or Jeff Bezos, letting the world know about his $81,840 annual salary from Amazon. The Ikea founder, Ingvar Kamprad, flew coach and bought his clothes at flea markets. Queen Elizabeth II is said to reuse wrapping paper. Stars in jewels and couture scarf In-N-Out burgers on their way home from the Oscars.See? they are saying. Of course we could afford caviar or a fancy car or a fresh roll of wrapping paper. Fame and fortune haven’t changed us. Deep down, we’re just like you!Which brings us to Robert Kraft, a 77-year-old billionaire, Donald Trump pal, New England Patriots owner and, apparently, a fellow cheap senior. Last month Mr. Kraft was swept up in a statewide sting operation and charged with soliciting sex in a South Florida strip mall. Mr. Kraft is an undisputed billionaire. If he wants to pay for sex, he could hire the most discreet, professional escorts. If it had to be sex with someone at a strip mall, he could have probably bought the entire strip mall — nail salon, Outback Steakhouse and all.But according to the prosecutors, that’s not what happened. Instead, they say, for two days in a row he visited a seedy-looking storefront called Orchids of Asia Spa, where he spent less than 20 minutes per visit and paid between $100 and $200 for these encounters, one of which involved oral sex, with women who were, according to the police, prisoners, brought over from China with the promise of legitimate jobs. These women’s lives sound miserable. They were flown to America. Many were routed through Flushing, Queens, then dispatched to spas all over the country. They would work up to 14-hour days, seven days a week, cooking their meals on hot plates, sleeping on the massage tables, being moved from business to business, sometimes after they’d surrendered their passports to their bosses.Mr. Kraft wasn’t the only superrich guy who was caught up in this investigation: John Childs, who founded a private equity firm, and John Havens, the former chief financial officer of Citigroup, were also charged.Mr. Kraft and Mr. Childs have denied the charges. The police say they have taped evidence. But the allegations do present this tantalizing question: If these men are indeed guilty, why are billionaires, with all the discretionary income in the world to pay for sex in a way that’s sane and unlikely to get them in trouble, seemingly looking for intimate companionship and a bargain at the same time? Of all the things to skimp on, why sex?Maybe the cheapness is part of the fun. Maybe strip-mall sex lets jaded, wealthy men feel as if they’re getting away with something, giving them the same tiny thrill enjoyed by every little old lady with a purse full of purloined Panera napkins.Maybe it speaks to a puritanical ambivalence about pleasure: The seedy surroundings allow you to simultaneously have your cake and feel bad about eating it, too.Perhaps it’s the cautionary example Mr. Trump provides. His presidency, of course, has been plagued by revelations that his fixer arranged for significant hush money payments to two women with whom Mr. Trump allegedly had affairs. A professional escort (or even just a native, English-speaking one) might be tempted to try for a similar arrangement. And even if she doesn’t, her client presumably would still have to talk to her, to look her in the face and discuss terms, negotiate limits or even just say, “Be quiet, ‘Shark Week’ is on.” No matter how skewed the power dynamics, no matter how briefly, the client has to see her as a person. A woman in a place like Orchids of Asia who might not be in the country legally and doesn’t speak your language? She probably doesn’t seem like a threat in the same way. In the eyes of her clients, I imagine, she isn’t a person you’d have to send your lawyer after to pay off, she is barely a person at all. If a man, even a billionaire, wants to buy sex, I’ve got no quarrel, as long as both parties are of age and willing. But that same billionaire skimping and paying a relatively paltry amount to a woman who doesn’t want to be there and can’t leave? That’s something else.Same with the sugar. When your elderly relatives take a few extra napkins from a fast-food place, that’s one thing. But what if they load up at a mom-and-pop restaurant and take the napkin dispenser, too? Cheap can be charming, and quirky, or at least understandable. But cutting corners at the expense of small-business owners or casino workers or Trump University students who think they’ll be getting an education is different. Helping yourself to free napkins is one thing; underpaying a prostitute or a victim of sex trafficking? That kind of cheap is a lot harder to understand.Jennifer Weiner (@jenniferweiner) is the author, most recently, of the memoir “Hungry Heart” and a contributing opinion writer.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael RostonJust as we’ve caught our breaths from 2018’s exciting and very busy year in space and astronomy, 2019 is already off to a rapid start. Before we finish the first week of this year, we’ll see a Chinese probe landing on the moon, an eclipse and NASA’s New Horizons spacecraft complete a flyby of the most distant object ever visited in the solar system. However much you love space and astronomy, we know it can be challenging to keep on top of the latest out-of-this-world news. We’ve put dates for these events and more on The Times’s Astronomy and Space Calendar, which has been updated for 2019. Subscribe on your personal digital calendar, and you’ll be automatically synced with our updates all year long.Never miss an eclipse, a meteor shower, a rocket launch or any other astronomical and space event that's out of this world.Below are some of the launches, space science and other events we anticipate. You’ll find these and others added to your calendar as their dates approach.The year is set to start with a moon landing by China’s Chang’e-4 mission. The spacecraft launched in December and reached lunar orbit four and a half days later. If its lander and rover succeed, Chang’e-4 will be the first spacecraft to make a soft, or intact, landing on the moon’s far side — the side that always faces away from Earth.The Chinese spacecraft may be the first of a series of lunar landings.An Israeli company, SpaceIL, is scheduled to send a lander to the moon in February. Originally, SpaceIL was one of four finalists in Google’s Lunar X Prize. But the prize went unclaimed when none of the companies were able to meet a launch deadline of March 31, 2018. If the Israeli mission succeeds, it would make that country only the fourth to complete a soft landing on the moon, after the United States, the Soviet Union and China.But Israel could get beaten to that distinction by India, which may launch Chandrayaan-2, the nation’s first moon lander and rover, as soon as late January. (Chandrayaan-1, an orbiter, launched in 2008.) The mission was expected to launch last year, but met with delays. This lunar activity may serve as a setup for the 50th anniversary of the Apollo 11 mission, when humans first walked on the moon. And China has the opportunity to bookend 2019 with a second moon mission, Chang’e-5, which could land on the moon late in the year, collect samples and later return them to Earth for study.Since 2011, when the space shuttle Atlantis completed its final mission, astronauts from the United States and other countries have relied on Russia’s Soyuz capsules to make journeys to and from the International Space Station. That could change later this year. SpaceX and Boeing have both built new capsules to carry crews for NASA and other space agencies. Delayed repeatedly in 2018, the capsules seem likely to get off the launchpad in 2019.SpaceX’s Crew Dragon is scheduled for its first uncrewed test launch on Jan. 17. If that succeeds, a test launch with crew aboard could follow in June. Boeing’s Starliner also may fly with no crew in March, followed by a test flight carrying astronauts in August.But even if test flights are completed for both capsules, NASA will need to assess their readiness and safety before the spacecraft begin carrying crew to the space station.Last year was a busy one for private spaceflight. The Falcon Heavy was tested successfully, giving SpaceX the most powerful rocket currently able to launch from Earth. Rocket Lab put payloads into orbit three times during the year, hinting at the promise of small rockets for the satellite business. And Virgin Galactic’s SpaceShipTwo crossed the 50-mile threshold into the atmosphere, making it the most advanced entrant in space tourism.These companies could be joined by other small rocket makers in 2019. One company likely to make it to space is Virgin Orbit. Related to Virgin Galactic, the company sends rockets high into the atmosphere aboard a 747 jet plane, and then releases and launches them into orbit. Its preparations for a test launch appeared to be progressing toward the end of 2018. Another contender, Vector, was started by a founder of SpaceX and aims to mass-produce small rockets on the cheap. It could complete its first orbital test this year, from the Pacific Spaceport Complex in Kodiak, Alaska.Other private operators may materialize, too. Jeff Bezos’s Blue Origin has been steadily testing its New Shepard rocket. And Falcon Heavy, following its exciting test launch last February, could carry satellites to high orbits twice in the first half of this year.In 2018, four missions set off for deep space or other planets to advance scientific research. NASA launched the Parker Solar Probe to study the sun, InSight to listen for tectonic activity on Mars and TESS to scour the Milky Way galaxy for planets. In addition, the joint European-Japanese BepiColombo mission set off on a long journey to Mercury.This year, data from these missions are expected to begin streaming back to planetary scientists and astronomers on Earth. Downloads from the TESS spacecraft already hinted at 73 potential exoplanets around other stars in September, and the Parker Solar Probe has transmitted striking photos of the sun (and Mercury).NASA will also select its next deep-space mission. The agency’s New Frontiers competition finances smaller deep-space missions, and past winners are currently traveling the solar system. NASA will choose between two finalists: a mission to the comet 67P/Churyumov–Gerasimenko (earlier studied by Europe’s Rosetta spacecraft) to collect samples and return them to Earth; or a robotic drone to Titan, a moon of Saturn, to study its terrain.We may also learn the fate of NASA’s Opportunity rover. Last summer a giant dust storm covered Mars and kept sunlight from reaching the robotic explorer’s solar batteries; since then, the rover has been silent. Its controllers on Earth have been trying to re-establish contact for months, and may need to consider discontinuing its mission.Michael Roston is the senior staff editor for science. He was previously a social media editor for The Times and a home page producer.  @michaelroston Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe ShiftBy Kevin RooseDAVOS, Switzerland — They’ll never admit it in public, but many of your bosses want machines to replace you as soon as possible.I know this because, for the past week, I’ve been mingling with corporate executives at the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos. And I’ve noticed that their answers to questions about automation depend very much on who is listening.In public, many executives wring their hands over the negative consequences that artificial intelligence and automation could have for workers. They take part in panel discussions about building “human-centered A.I.” for the “Fourth Industrial Revolution” — Davos-speak for the corporate adoption of machine learning and other advanced technology — and talk about the need to provide a safety net for people who lose their jobs as a result of automation.But in private settings, including meetings with the leaders of the many consulting and technology firms whose pop-up storefronts line the Davos Promenade, these executives tell a different story: They are racing to automate their own work forces to stay ahead of the competition, with little regard for the impact on workers.All over the world, executives are spending billions of dollars to transform their businesses into lean, digitized, highly automated operations. They crave the fat profit margins automation can deliver, and they see A.I. as a golden ticket to savings, perhaps by letting them whittle departments with thousands of workers down to just a few dozen.“People are looking to achieve very big numbers,” said Mohit Joshi, the president of Infosys, a technology and consulting firm that helps other businesses automate their operations. “Earlier they had incremental, 5 to 10 percent goals in reducing their work force. Now they’re saying, ‘Why can’t we do it with 1 percent of the people we have?’”Few American executives will admit wanting to get rid of human workers, a taboo in today’s age of inequality. So they’ve come up with a long list of buzzwords and euphemisms to disguise their intent. Workers aren’t being replaced by machines, they’re being “released” from onerous, repetitive tasks. Companies aren’t laying off workers, they’re “undergoing digital transformation.”A 2017 survey by Deloitte found that 53 percent of companies had already started to use machines to perform tasks previously done by humans. The figure is expected to climb to 72 percent by next year.The corporate elite’s A.I. obsession has been lucrative for firms that specialize in “robotic process automation,” or R.P.A. Infosys, which is based in India, reported a 33 percent increase in year-over-year revenue in its digital division. IBM’s “cognitive solutions” unit, which uses A.I. to help businesses increase efficiency, has become the company’s second-largest division, posting $5.5 billion in revenue last quarter. The investment bank UBS projects that the artificial intelligence industry could be worth as much as $180 billion by next year.Kai-Fu Lee, the author of “AI Superpowers” and a longtime technology executive, predicts that artificial intelligence will eliminate 40 percent of the world’s jobs within 15 years. In an interview, he said that chief executives were under enormous pressure from shareholders and boards to maximize short-term profits, and that the rapid shift toward automation was the inevitable result.“They always say it’s more than the stock price,” he said. “But in the end, if you screw up, you get fired.”Other experts have predicted that A.I. will create more new jobs than it destroys, and that job losses caused by automation will probably not be catastrophic. They point out that some automation helps workers by improving productivity and freeing them to focus on creative tasks over routine ones.But at a time of political unrest and anti-elite movements on the progressive left and the nationalist right, it’s probably not surprising that all of this automation is happening quietly, out of public view. In Davos this week, several executives declined to say how much money they had saved by automating jobs previously done by humans. And none were willing to say publicly that replacing human workers is their ultimate goal.“That’s the great dichotomy,” said Ben Pring, the director of the Center for the Future of Work at Cognizant, a technology services firm. “On one hand,” he said, profit-minded executives “absolutely want to automate as much as they can.”“On the other hand,” he added, “they’re facing a backlash in civic society.”For an unvarnished view of how some American leaders talk about automation in private, you have to listen to their counterparts in Asia, who often make no attempt to hide their aims. Terry Gou, the chairman of the Taiwanese electronics manufacturer Foxconn, has said the company plans to replace 80 percent of its workers with robots in the next five to 10 years. Richard Liu, the founder of the Chinese e-commerce company JD.com, said at a business conference last year that “I hope my company would be 100 percent automation someday.”One common argument made by executives is that workers whose jobs are eliminated by automation can be “reskilled” to perform other jobs in an organization. They offer examples like Accenture, which claimed in 2017 to have replaced 17,000 back-office processing jobs without layoffs, by training employees to work elsewhere in the company. In a letter to shareholders last year, Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, said that more than 16,000 Amazon warehouse workers had received training in high-demand fields like nursing and aircraft mechanics, with the company covering 95 percent of their expenses.But these programs may be the exception that proves the rule. There are plenty of stories of successful reskilling — optimists often cite a program in Kentucky that trained a small group of former coal miners to become computer programmers — but there is little evidence that it works at scale. A report by the World Economic Forum this month estimated that of the 1.37 million workers who are projected to be fully displaced by automation in the next decade, only one in four can be profitably reskilled by private-sector programs. The rest, presumably, will need to fend for themselves or rely on government assistance.In Davos, executives tend to speak about automation as a natural phenomenon over which they have no control, like hurricanes or heat waves. They claim that if they don’t automate jobs as quickly as possible, their competitors will.“They will be disrupted if they don’t,” said Katy George, a senior partner at the consulting firm McKinsey & Company.Automating work is a choice, of course, one made harder by the demands of shareholders, but it is still a choice. And even if some degree of unemployment caused by automation is inevitable, these executives can choose how the gains from automation and A.I. are distributed, and whether to give the excess profits they reap as a result to workers, or hoard it for themselves and their shareholders.The choices made by the Davos elite — and the pressure applied on them to act in workers’ interests rather than their own — will determine whether A.I. is used as a tool for increasing productivity or for inflicting pain.“The choice isn’t between automation and non-automation,” said Erik Brynjolfsson, the director of M.I.T.’s Initiative on the Digital Economy. “It’s between whether you use the technology in a way that creates shared prosperity, or more concentration of wealth.”Kevin Roose is a columnist for Business Day and a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. His column, “The Shift,” examines the intersection of technology, business, and culture. @kevinroose • FacebookAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben Hubbard and Javier C. HernándezCAIRO — In his swing through Asia this week, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia vowed to invest billions of dollars in Pakistan and pushed to sell more oil to India. He will also explore deepening economic ties with China.The trip, by the de facto ruler of a wealthy Arab kingdom that has long considered the United States its most important ally, highlights the extent to which Saudi Arabia is increasingly looking to Asia for political and technological support that it cannot always count on from the West, analysts said.Saudi Arabia’s need to diversify its alliances has grown more acute amid the Western backlash over the killing of the Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi by Saudi agents in Istanbul in October. Congress has pursued measures to blame Prince Mohammed for the killing and limit military aid to the kingdom, while American tech companies that the prince heavily courted for projects in the kingdom have stepped back for fear of damaging their reputations.But the countries that Prince Mohammed is visiting this week — Pakistan, India and China — have expressed no such concerns, prioritizing economic ties with the kingdom over concerns about its respect for human rights.In turning east, the Saudis are also sending a message to the West, analysts said.“The Saudi leadership recognizes that it’s integral to diversify its relationships,” said Mohammed Turki al-Sudairi, a Hong Kong-based researcher for the King Faisal Center for Research and Islamic Studies. “The message is that there are other options out there.”Historically, Saudi Arabia’s relationship with Asia was mostly transactional, with the kingdom selling crude oil to power Asian economies while importing manufactured products. Since his father, King Salman, came to the Saudi throne in 2015, Prince Mohammed, 33, has been seeking to deepen the kingdom’s relationships with Asian countries and has made previous visits to the region.He began this tour on Sunday in Pakistan, a fellow Islamic country that welcomed him like a hero, with a 21-gun salute and fighter jet escort. President Arif Alvi granted him Pakistan’s highest award, and the head of the Senate gave him a gold-plated assault rifle.Prime Minister Imran Khan had spoken about Pakistan’s dire need for Saudi funds to ward off an economic crisis, and Prince Mohammed delivered, signing tentative agreements for investments of up to $20 billion in mining, agriculture, energy and other sectors and promising to free thousands of Pakistanis in Saudi prisons.“This is not charity, this is an investment,” said Adel al-Jubeir, the Saudi minister of state for foreign affairs. “There is benefit for both sides.”How much benefit remains to be seen, as many of the agreements were nonbinding memorandums of understanding that are often not fulfilled.On Tuesday, Prince Mohammed traveled to India, where he was welcomed with drumming and a bear hug from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. India is an important provider of labor for Saudi Arabia, with millions of Indians working in the kingdom.During the visit, the prince was expected to press India to buy more Saudi oil to fuel its fast-growing economy and to take market share away from Iran, the kingdom’s primary rival.On Wednesday, Prince Mohammed is set to land in China for talks on Thursday and Friday with President Xi Jinping and other officials. China is the largest buyer of Saudi crude oil, and ties between the two countries have been expanding to other sectors like technology and e-commerce.The relationship has grown because both countries have ambitious development plans that they believe the other can help achieve. Along with seeing Saudi Arabia as a stable source of oil, China hopes that the kingdom can play a role in its Belt and Road Initiative, an ambitious plan by Mr. Xi to build rail lines, power networks and roads to better connect China to allies in Europe and Africa.On the Saudi side, Prince Mohammed has begun plans to open up the kingdom and diversify its economy, a project called Vision 2030, and he hopes that Chinese companies will help it succeed.“China has the experience, funds, technology and talents for the Vision 2030,” said Li Guofu, a researcher on Middle Eastern issues at the China Institute of International Studies, a research organization overseen by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs.Chinese-Saudi cooperation has already moved into new fields. The two countries agreed in 2017 to open a factory in Saudi Arabia to build Chinese drones. And last year, China launched two observation satellites for Saudi Arabia.Facilitating Chinese-Saudi ties is a shared outlook that prioritizes economics while each ignores the other’s domestic governance and human rights practices. China has remained quiet about the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, while Saudi Arabia has not criticized China’s mass internment of members of its Muslim minority.That could increase the possibilities for Saudi tech companies.During a tour of the United States last year, Prince Mohammed visited the headquarters of Google and Apple, and met with the Amazon chief, Jeff Bezos, hoping to get them involved in his development plans. But after Mr. Khashoggi’s killing, the talks stopped and a range of American businesses suspended their ties with the kingdom.Mr. Li, the Chinese analyst, said the Saudis were currently “very uncomfortable” in their relationship with the United States and Europe, where many governments have condemned the killing.“This is also a very important reason that Saudi Arabia is making this kind of strategic adjustment,” he said.Chinese companies have not balked, looking for new markets as their domestic economy slows. Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications company that American officials have labeled a potential national security threat, opened a store last month in the Saudi capital, Riyadh, its largest outpost in the Middle East.While Amazon has suspended plans to open an office in the kingdom, Jollychic, a Chinese e-commerce business, has expanded its Riyadh headquarters.“Chinese tech companies’ positions on security and public safety are differentiators with Middle Eastern governments,” said Sam Blatteis, the previous Google head of Gulf government relations and now the co-founder of The MENA Catalysts, a consulting firm. “They are in a similar place on the trade-offs on the shifting frontier between privacy and security.”Even as it courts Saudi leaders, China has been careful not to alienate other Middle Eastern countries. On Tuesday, for example, Wang Yi, the Chinese foreign minister, told his Iranian counterpart, Mohammad Javad Zarif, that he wanted to deepen “strategic trust” between the two countries during a meeting in Beijing.“China has never picked sides and its principle is balanced relations,” said Zou Zhiqiang, an assistant professor at the Middle East Studies Institute at Shanghai International Studies University. “China will not agree to actions such as confronting Iran just to cooperate with Saudi Arabia.”Despite the kingdom’s growing ties with Asia, few expect a full break with the United States. The kingdom has spent hundreds of billions of dollars on American weapons, many of which come with long-term maintenance agreements that make it difficult for the Saudis to switch to other systems.And despite the anger at Saudi Arabia in Congress, President Trump has stood by Prince Mohammed, considering him an essential partner in his administration’s plans to push back against Iran and pursue a peace deal between Israel and the Palestinians.“China is increasingly an important player and an important partner for the kingdom, but if you look at the strategic relationship with America, nobody can replace the United States,” said Mohammed Alyahya, editor in chief of Al Arabiya English, a Saudi-owned news site. “So I think that the idea of a pivot is inaccurate.”Ben Hubbard reported from Cairo, and Javier C. Hernández from Beijing. Albee Zhang contributed research from Beijing.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — The Seattle area, home to both Microsoft and Amazon, is a potent symbol of the affordable housing crisis that has followed the explosive growth of tech hubs. Now Microsoft, arguing that the industry has an interest and responsibility to help people left behind in communities transformed by the boom, is putting up $500 million to help address the problem.Microsoft’s money represents the most ambitious effort by a tech company to directly address the inequality that has spread in areas where the industry is concentrated, particularly on the West Coast. It will fund construction for homes affordable not only to the company’s own non-tech workers, but also for teachers, firefighters and other middle- and low-income residents.Microsoft’s move comes less than a year after Amazon successfully pushed to block a new tax in Seattle that would have made large businesses pay a per-employee tax to fund homeless services and the construction of affordable housing. The company said the tax created a disincentive to create jobs. Microsoft, which is based in nearby Redmond, Wash., and has few employees who work in the city, did not take a position on the tax.The debate about the rapid growth of the tech industry and the inequality that often follows has spilled across the country, particularly as Amazon, with billions of taxpayer subsidies, announced plans to build major campuses in Long Island City, Queens, and Arlington, Va., that would employ a total of at least 50,000 people. In New York, elected officials and residents have raised concerns that Amazon has not made commitments to support affordable housing.Microsoft has been at the vanguard of warning about the potential negative effects of technology, like privacy or the unintended consequences of artificial intelligence. Executives hope the housing efforts will spur other companies to follow its lead.“We believe everybody has a role to play, and everybody needs to play their role,” said Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president and chief legal officer.The company’s strong finances, a sign of its resurgence under Satya Nadella as chief executive, have given it resources to deploy, Mr. Smith said. In October, the company reported net income of $8.8 billion in its most recent quarter, up 34 percent, and it had almost $136 billion in cash and short-term investments on its balance sheet. The company’s stock has risen steadily under Mr. Nadella, and Microsoft is now valued at over $800 billion.A number of other tech businesses have tried to address the homeless crisis. Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has supported homeless service providers through his personal foundation, and the Salesforce chief executive, Marc Benioff, helped fund a proposition in San Francisco to tax businesses to pay for homeless services. Voters approved the tax in November, rejecting opposition from some tech leaders, including Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey.Others plan to build housing for their own employees. Such housing may help with demand, but it has also reinforced the impression that the companies are focused too closely on their own backyards.“This is long-range thinking by a company that has been around for a long time, and plans to be around for a long time,” said Margaret O’Mara, a professor at the University of Washington who studies the history of tech companies.Microsoft began researching the region’s housing last summer, after the nasty tax fight in Seattle and around a peak of the housing market. The company analyzed data and hired a consultant to decide how to focus its work. The area’s home prices have almost doubled in the past eight years, and Mr. Smith said he learned that “the region has counterintuitively done less to build middle-income housing than low-income housing, especially in the suburbs.”That squeeze hits a range of workers. “Of course, we have lots of software engineers, but the reality is that a lot of people work for Microsoft. Cafeteria workers, shuttle drivers,” Mr. Nadella said this week at a meeting with editors at the company’s headquarters. “It is a supply problem, a market failure.”Microsoft plans to lend $225 million at subsidized rates to preserve and build middle-income housing in six cities near its Redmond headquarters. It will put an additional $250 million into low-income housing across the region. Some of those loans may be made through the federal programs that provide tax breaks for low-income housing.The company plans to invest the money within three years, and expects most of it to go to Seattle’s suburbs.The loans could go to private or nonprofit developers, or to governmental groups like the King County Housing Authority. As the loans are repaid, Mr. Smith said, Microsoft plans to lend the money out again to support additional projects.The remaining $25 million will be grants to local organizations that work with the homeless, including legal aid for people fighting eviction. The Seattle Times reported Wednesday that if the $500 million were put into one project, it would create only about 1,000 units, so instead Microsoft will most likely put smaller amounts in many projects to help build “tens of thousands of units.”The initial reaction to the company’s announcement was positive.“There is almost no level of housing that isn’t direly needed,” said Claudia Balducci, a member of the King County Council who helps lead the Regional Affordable Housing Task Force.A report in December by the task force said that the region needs 156,000 more affordable housing units, and will need 88,000 more units by 2040 to accommodate future growth.A growing body of research has tied the lack of affordable housing to increasing homelessness. A December study from the real estate website Zillow said that was particularly true when households pay more than a third of their income in rent. The New York, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle regions — the country’s largest tech hubs — have all already crossed that threshold.“The idea that you can live in your bubble and put your fingers in your ears just doesn’t work anymore,” said Steve Schwartz, head of public affairs at Tableau Software, which is based in Seattle.Amazon in recent years has worked closely with Mary’s Place, a homeless shelter for women and children in Seattle, and is integrating a shelter for about 65 families into one of its new buildings. Amazon has paid tens of millions of dollars to the city’s affordable housing trust fund as fees to build in the core of Seattle.Amazon declined to comment.Google supported the City of Mountain View’s plan to add 10,000 housing units in an area it’s developing, with 20 percent designated for lower-income residents. And Facebook has planned to build 1,500 apartments near its Menlo Park headquarters, with 15 percent to be affordable.Microsoft has begun a major overhaul of its main campus in Redmond, committing billions of dollars in renovations and connecting it to a light rail station under construction. The company helped finance a successful campaign for voters to approve more property taxes to pay for transportation. This new investment in housing takes its commitments a step further.“This is where Microsoft is going to be, and the region needs to work,” Ms. Balducci said. “I don’t think this is wholly altruism.”Follow Karen Weise on Twitter: @kyweise.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest._____1. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi postponed an official trip to Europe and Afghanistan over security concerns after President Trump grounded her military flight and White House officials leaked a secret plan for her to fly commercially.It was the latest turn in a bitter tit-for-tat between the president and Ms. Pelosi, who asked Mr. Trump on Wednesday to postpone his State of the Union address.Late in the day Friday, Mr. Trump tweeted he would be making a “major announcement” about the southern border and government shutdown at 3 p.m. on Saturday from the White House.Separately, Democratic lawmakers pledged to investigate a report that President Trump directed his former lawyer Michael Cohen to lie to Congress._____2. President Trump plans to meet again with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, in February to push the North to begin denuclearization.Negotiations over North Korea’s nuclear arsenal have made little progress since the two leaders’ first meeting in Singapore last June, above, and the new meeting is a sign of how quickly the president has backed away from his initial insistence on fast action by Pyongyang.The announcement came after Mr. Trump met for 90 minutes in the Oval Office with Mr. Kim’s chief nuclear negotiator.The date and location of the meeting will be announced later, the White House said. Vietnam, Thailand and Hawaii have all been mentioned as potential sites._____3. Winter is here.A major storm has swept across the Rockies and should reach the Midwest and Northeast over the three-day holiday weekend, bringing heavy snow, strong winds and frigid temperatures.The system is expected to snarl travel, with winter weather advisories stretching from the Dakotas to Maine. Extreme cold will follow for tens of millions of people.Bundle up, and visit nytimes.com for updates. While you’re waiting, check out these early Times photographs of snowstorms in New York in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Above, a 1914 blizzard._____4. A white Chicago police officer was sentenced to nearly 7 years in prison for murdering Laquan McDonald, a black teenager who became a national symbol of police brutality.Jason Van Dyke, above, is the city’s first patrolman in almost 50 years to be convicted of murder. He was also sentenced for 16 counts of aggravated battery with a firearm, one for every bullet he fired on that October night in 2014.The killing was captured in a dashcam video seen by millions of horrified viewers. Though an appeal is likely, the sentence provided a measure of finality in a case that exposed the city’s racial divisions and upended its government._____5. RCA Records has dropped R. Kelly, the R&B star accused of decades of misconduct, after weeks of protests and a documentary series that drew national attention.Mr. Kelly, once one of the biggest and most influential stars in pop music, has been dogged by accusations of sexual misconduct since the mid-1990s, when he was sued by women who said he had engaged in sexual activity with them when they were as young as 15.A campaign on social media, #MuteRKelly, asked entertainment companies to stop doing business with Mr. Kelly. The pressure intensified this month after Lifetime broadcast a six-part documentary series, “Surviving R. Kelly,” which included on-camera testimonials by numerous women who said Mr. Kelly had abused them while they were underage._____6. Microsoft made a $500 million pledge this week to help address the affordable housing crisis in the Seattle area.And the company isn’t simply writing checks or building new units — it’s trying to help fix a market failure, a job government typically does.The announcement is welcome news in the region, where housing costs have risen faster lately than in any other part of the country, like the Ballard neighborhood, above. But the fact that a tech company has to step in points to a long-building reality nationwide: The federal government has largely retreated from this role.As Microsoft unveiled its plans, the Department of Housing and Urban Development remained largely shuttered in Washington during the government shutdown._____7. Divorce is always complicated — even more so when a company’s future is on the line.The announcement that Jeff Bezos and his wife, Mackenzie, are splitting up instantly raised questions about the couple’s $140 billion stake in Amazon.Amazon’s investors should be paying attention, our business columnist writes. So should investors in other companies with billionaire founders: Google, Facebook and Snap to name a few. These entrepreneurs often hold special classes of stock that give them extra power.More such breakups are inevitable — after all, many tech founders are only now reaching the age for the proverbial midlife crisis._____8. The streets are closed in Cremona, Italy, and the mayor has asked citizens for silence. Even a broken glass may trigger a police visit.Cremona was once home to Antonio Stradivari, who in the 17th and 18th centuries produced some of the finest violins and cellos ever made. And an ambitious project to digitally record the sounds of his instruments requires absolute quiet.Sound engineers using 32 ultrasensitive microphones are producing a database to store all the possible tones that four instruments selected from the Museo del Violino’s collection can produce. The quiet, and the recording, lasts through January._____9. “When it’s blue sky and you’re on the polar plateau, you can feel so small.”Colin O’Brady, 33, right, and Louis Rudd, 49, spent almost two months racing solo across Antarctica, a journey that killed an explorer who attempted it in 2016. They faced wind chills around minus 70 degrees Fahrenheit, whiteout days with little visibility and isolation, for starters.Back in warmer climates, they spoke about the race of a lifetime.“It’s just endless, and you’re like this tiny little speck,” Mr. Brady said. “You are the only tiny little thing out there in this endless sea of light.”_____10. Finally, it’s not just humans looking for love online.Romeo was a lonely male Bolivian Sehuencas water frog, thought to be the last of his kind. So conservationists made a dating profile for him — as a fund-raiser — and raised enough to send a team into the cloud forest to find his Juliet.And find her they did. Researchers have high hopes that the species will be saved, as soon as Juliet is out of quarantine for disease testing.After all, one scientist said, “We don’t want Romeo to get sick on the first date.”Have a fulfilling weekend.We’re off for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday on Monday and will be back Tuesday._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Inyoung Kang(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’ve got breaking news on two continents today, a crisis at the southwestern border, and a new Brexit deadline.The WikiLeaks founder faces one count of conspiracy to hack a computer related to his role in the 2010 release of classified U.S. documents, according to court documents unsealed today shortly after his arrest in London. He was arrested at the Ecuadorean Embassy, where he had lived since 2012, after Ecuador withdrew the asylum it had granted him.President Lenín Moreno of Ecuador said that his country had decided to stop sheltering Mr. Assange after “his repeated violations to international conventions and daily-life protocols.” The background: After WikiLeaks released the classified material in 2010, Mr. Assange, 47, took refuge in the embassy two years later to avoid extradition to Sweden, where he faced questions about sexual assault allegations. He is also suspected of aiding Russian interference in the 2016 election by releasing material stolen from the Democrats.The country’s military ousted President Omar al-Bashir today, ending a 30-year authoritarian rule in the face of mass street protests.Mr. al-Bashir, 75, is accused of war crimes and is wanted by the International Criminal Court in connection with genocide in Darfur, where hundreds of thousands were killed. He was taken into custody, the government was dissolved and the Constitution suspended, the defense minister said.Some of the protesters called for caution while awaiting a statement from the military.“The uprising continues,” a spokeswoman said, adding that they would continue “until there is a complete step down of the whole regime.”Go deeper: Mr. al-Bashir liked to play up his humble origins to project a folksy image that contrasted with his image in the West, where he was often seen as a heartless warmonger.There had been warnings for years that America’s immigration system was on the brink of failure.That moment may have arrived: The country is now failing to provide either necessary humanitarian relief or basic controls on the number and nature of who comes in.By the numbers: At the current pace of nearly 100,000 migrants a month, officials say more than a million people will have tried to enter the country in a 12-month period. The flow of migrant families has reached record levels — as many as 27,000 children are expected to arrive in April.Voices: “Infectious disease is everywhere,” a Border Patrol union leader said. “It’s dangerous for our agents. It’s dangerous for the detainees that don’t have anything.”William Barr said on Wednesday that the government had surveilled Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, and that he was preparing to review “both the genesis and the conduct” of that inquiry. “I think spying on a political campaign is a big deal,” he said.Mr. Barr also offered more details of the Russia investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, adding that he hoped to release the redacted report next week.Yesterday: The Treasury Department declined to immediately give President Trump’s tax returns to Congress, saying it needed more time to assess the lawfulness of the request. Here’s what we might learn from the documents.Looking ahead: Gregory Craig, a White House counsel during the Obama administration, is expected to be indicted on charges related to his work for Ukraine, his lawyers said. The case stemmed from an investigation initiated by Mr. Mueller’s office.As companies and governments gain new abilities to follow people across the internet and around the world, the costs and benefits of technological advances are becoming clearer.The Times is beginning a project to explore the debate around those changes.See for yourself: What do you think should be private? Take our survey.Quote of note: “We in the West are building a surveillance state,” our columnist writes. “But while China is doing it through government, we are doing it through corporations and consumer products, in the absence of any real regulation that recognizes the stakes at hand.”Huaraz, a Peruvian city of 130,000, sits about 14 miles below this swelling glacial lake. Many residents live in fear that an avalanche could cause a flood that would wipe away their homes.Our Sunday Magazine’s climate issue looks at how and why a Peruvian farmer sued a German utility company — and what the effort might teach us about litigating a complex global problem.Brexit extension: European Union leaders have agreed to push the deadline for Britain’s departure from the bloc to Oct. 31, staving off a potentially chaotic, no-deal exit that had been scheduled for Friday.Aftermath of Israeli vote: With nearly all of the votes from Tuesday’s election counted, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was poised for a fifth term. The results attest to the starkly conservative vision of Israeli voters, our Jerusalem bureau chief writes in a news analysis.Elections in India: Voting began today in the world’s largest democracy. Here’s a guide to the election, which lasts five weeks and involves 900 million voters.Uber I.P.O.: The ride-hailing giant told some investors that a public stock sale could give the company a $100 billion valuation — below a $120 billion that investment bankers had floated. Its shares are expected to begin trading next month.National Enquirer: The tabloid is nearing a sale, the publisher said. Its owner is said to have grown uncomfortable being at the center of a federal inquiry over claims by Jeff Bezos that it had threatened him.Snapshot: Above, scientists on Wednesday released the first-ever view of a black hole, at the heart of a galaxy some 55 million light-years from Earth. “We have seen what we thought was unseeable,” said Shep Doeleman, the director of the effort to capture the image.Late-night comedy: Samantha Bee drew on “The Wizard of Oz” in discussing the departure of Kirstjen Nielsen, who “stepped down as Homeland Security secretary, presumably to spend more time with her family after a house fell on her sister.” What we’re reading: Comic strips on Instagram. Michael Roston, a science editor, writes: “If you really miss the funny pages in newspapers of yore, try Instagram. For months, my feed has been dominated by comics made for the medium, and I couldn’t be happier. Once you follow a few, Instagram’s algorithm will serve up more. Here’s a starter pack: Strange Planet, Rubyetc and They Can Talk.”Cook: Lemony whipped feta pairs well with pita chips or raw vegetables.Watch: A boy discovers his superpowers in a scene from “Shazam!,” with commentary from the film’s director, David F. Sandberg.Listen: Tayla Parx has helped several pop stars, including Ariana Grande, refresh their sound. Her own debut album is “We Need to Talk.”Read: “The Heart of a Boy,” a collection of photographs celebrating boyhood by Kate T. Parker, debuts on our paperback nonfiction best-seller list.Smarter Living: A computer science professor offers clear guidance on digital decluttering: Remove most apps from your phone and use them on a browser instead. And spend leisure time doing activities that have nothing to do with glowing screens.Here are five things to help you free yourself from smartphone dependence.“Star Wars” aficionados, some in Wookiee fur, are gathering for Celebration, a marketing stunt in galactic disguise, organized by Disney’s Lucasfilm. The 13th installment begins in Chicago today.Disney wants to rally the faithful for the December release of the next “Star Wars” episode. The title is to be announced on Friday.Billions of dollars in movie tickets, merchandise and video-on-demand rentals are on the line.Safe to say it will not be “Episode IX — We Will Keep This Going Until Tatooine Freezes Over.”“Make Alderaan Great Again”? Or a musical? “A Death Star Is Born.”Fans have spent months guessing. A Reddit user floated “Balance of the Force,” citing coding buried on StarWars.com. The subtitles do tend to be something of the something — “Return of the Jedi,” “Attack of the Clones,” “Revenge of the Sith.”The promotion can either help fans to move past their grouchiness about the eighth movie, “The Last Jedi,” or prompt another rebellion that will send Disney marketers to battle positions.This morning has been busy, but that’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— InyoungThank youTo Chris Stanford, who helped compile today’s briefing, and to Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Brooks Barnes, our reporter for all things Hollywood, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Israel’s election.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Swirl of water (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The New York Times Company named a vice president of corporate security last week: Jason Reich, the former director of global security for BuzzFeed Inc.Inyoung Kang is an editor and producer based in London.  @inyoungk Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Venezuela’s opposition leader vows to return to the country, India and Pakistan are still at loggerheads and we go inside the Trump-Kim talks. Here’s the latest: Venezuela’s opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, has toured South America for much of the past week. Defying a government-imposed travel ban, he met with the far-right president of Brazil and the center-left president of Ecuador, among others, to demonstrate the broad international support for his claim to be the legitimate leader of Venezuela. Each day he spends out the country, though, he risks losing the unity of opposition parties, already reeling after President Nicolás Maduro last month reduced Mr. Guaidó’s promised “aid avalanche” at the border to a few flakes. Mr. Guaidó had vowed to re-enter Venezuela as those aid shipments broke through Mr. Maduro’s blockade. He has now set a deadline of this morning for his return. Mr. Maduro has threatened to have him arrested. Bigger picture: With Mr. Maduro firmly controlling the borders, and defections from his military so far a trickle, the opposition is realizing that the government’s rule appears to be more durable than Mr. Guaidó had painted it.Looking ahead: The secretary general of the Organization of American States, Luis Almagro, who is one of Mr. Guaidó’s chief international supporters, softened his demands on Mr. Maduro, saying he would not object to his running for office again in new elections if they were free and fair. The two nuclear-armed neighbors exchanged artillery fire on Saturday, killing at least five civilians and two soldiers and making it clear that hostilities over the disputed Kashmir region are hardly over.The recent flare-up, with both sides accusing the other of firing first, came just a day after Pakistan returned a captured Indian pilot as a good-will gesture.Dispute: Independent security analysts continue to question India’s claim that it targeted a “large number” of terrorists at a major training camp in Pakistan last week. Satellite imagery of the area showed India “didn’t hit their targets,” according to a think tank in Washington.Go deeper: After an aging Indian warplane was shot down by Pakistan, New Delhi’s military preparedness is under renewed scrutiny. The Indian military is in such a troubled state that, according to government estimates, if intense warfare broke out tomorrow its troops would have enough ammunition for only 10 days.On the ground: Kashmir’s complicated history, tugged in different directions by two muscular powers, has left its local population with a dark future and under the constant threat of death.The nuclear talks in Vietnam last week between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, were doomed before they even started, with no basic starting point established and  some of Mr. Trump’s aides questioning whether they should happen. Banking on the force of his own personality and their rapport, Mr. Trump offered Mr. Kim the same deal North Korea has rejected for a quarter-century: total nuclear disarmament in exchange for full sanctions relief. For his part, Mr. Kim miscalculated that Mr. Trump might accept a more modest offer. In an effort to maintain Mr. Trump’s détente with Mr. Kim, the Pentagon will hold off on large-scale military exercises with South Korea this spring, though a limited version is still expected to go forward. Mr. Trump first suspended the military exercises after his initial meeting with Mr. Kim last year, surprising the Pentagon. Another angle: North Korean hackers kept up attacks against European and American targets last week even during the meeting, cybersecurity researchers said.If the French language has a fortress, it is the imposing Académie Française, so exclusive that some of the greatest French writers have been turned away. Since the 17th century, members known as the Immortals have updated the definitive dictionary of French in an effort to protect the language against such ravages as the “deadly snobbery of Anglo-American.” But lately the academy has struggled to fill vacancies, a paralysis that reflects France’s own struggle to adapt to the 21st century. “We’re the reflection of the society, and it’s a society that’s questioning itself,” one member said.Saudi Arabia: Walid Fitaihi, a U.S. citizen initially detained at the Ritz Carlton hotel in Riyadh as part of what the Saudi government has billed as a crackdown on corruption, has been imprisoned without any public charges or trial since 2017. His friend says he has also been tortured — including being shocked with electricity and whipped.Britain: Landlord checks on a prospective tenant’s immigration status lead to racial discrimination and violate human rights, a court found. The ruling was a blow to Prime Minister Theresa May, who has championed “hostile environment” policies to deter illegal immigration.China: The country’s vast detention program for Muslims has required more and more police officers. Some of them are being recruited from the very ethnic groups that are being targeted.Syria: The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons found “reasonable grounds” that chlorine weapons were used in the assault on the town of Douma last year that killed 43 people. The U.S. and its allies blamed President Bashar al-Assad for the attack and launched punitive airstrikes against government targets at the time.Turkey: A suburb made up of Disney-style chateaus is no magic kingdom — it  is unfinished, in bankruptcy and much criticized for its architecture — but the minicastles are still for sale. Chris Grayling: The political survival of Britain’s transport minister has baffled many who accuse him of staggering incompetence, but his loyalty to Mrs. May has protected him. Medicine: In the U.S., a colossal battle is underway over the regulation of fecal transplants, a revolutionary procedure used to treat life-threatening problems. Jeff Bezos: For years, Amazon’s chief executive kept a low profile. But in recent weeks, his discreet, focused life has become tangled in Hollywood’s gossip machine.Kidfluencers: Brands like Mattel and Crayola are striking lucrative deals with toddlers and tweens with large social media followings (some deals can fetch up to $50,000).In memoriam: Zhores Alferov, a Russian physicist and committed communist who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2000 for research that underpinned inventions integral to modern life like solar cells and cellphones, has died at 88.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Start the week with a bracing, spicy dinner of vegetarian mapo tofu.If you have friends or loved ones who are survivors of sexual abuse or assault, here are ways you can help their recovery.Traveling while holding down a full-time job sounds too good to be true. But it can be done.On Tuesday, the end of the women’s ready-to-wear season in Paris, the last of Karl Lagerfeld’s enormous sets for Chanel will be revealed — the final gesture of a man who shaped fashion as we know it. He died on Feb. 19.Though many designers have created dramatic shows — most notably Alexander McQueen, John Galliano when he headed his own brand and currently Thom Browne — none reached the extremes of Mr. Lagerfeld. He once imported (and then returned) a Swedish iceberg, had a rocket launch and created a sandy beach with real surf — all within the glass-roofed confines of the Grand Palais.Though I was never as big a fan of these fantasy moments as many of my peers (I believed the money could be better spent elsewhere, like on a charitable foundation), they were the markers of a time that is coming to a close, symbols of a vision that bridged the couture and Instagram eras.Get ready for the farewell hurrah. Given that Mr. Lagerfeld never did anything by half measures, it is bound to be a doozy.Vanessa Friedman, the chief fashion critic at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. Follow her on Twitter for live updates from this week’s show.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. President Trump considers side-stepping Congress, India proposes new censorship measures and China brings digital propaganda to the people. Here’s the latest: Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, said that the president planned to make the declaration, allowing him to bypass Congress to get funds for his promised wall at the southern border.That would set up a constitutional clash with lawmakers over who controls the federal purse. Here’s how a national emergency declaration would work.Mr. McConnell said Mr. Trump would act after signing off on a border security deal that Congress is about to approve to avert another government shutdown. The deal provides just a fraction of the wall funding Mr. Trump had demanded.Other news from Washington: Andrew McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director, said that the agency was so alarmed by President Trump’s decision to fire the bureau’s director, James Comey, in 2017 that Justice Department officials considered encouraging cabinet members to invoke a constitutional amendment to remove him from office.Meanwhile, the Senate confirmed William Barr as attorney general, despite concerns from Democrats that he might not make public the findings of his department’s ongoing Russia investigation. The technology giant announced it wasn’t going to “move forward” with plans to build a sprawling corporate campus in Long Island City, Queens, after stiff opposition from some local lawmakers and unions empowered by the rise of Democratic political strength.Amazon had forecast that the campus would have created more than 25,000 jobs.The opposition: A point of contention was the $3 billion package of incentives and subsidies the city and state agreed to — their largest ever, dedicated to one of the world’s richest companies. City officials had also agreed to remake plans for the Queens waterfront and give the company’s chief, Jeff Bezos, access to a helicopter pad.There was also concern over the company’s anti-union practices and the changes its huge presence would bring to Queens. Before Amazon’s announcement, we looked at the resistance.The government has proposed new measures that would give it more power to monitor and suppress information on the internet, drawing comparisons with China’s muscular censorship.“The proposed changes have an authoritarian bent,” said one activist.Details: The new rules would allow Indian officials to demand the removal of posts or videos from Facebook, Twitter, Google, TikTok and other platforms that they deem libelous, hateful, deceptive or invasive of privacy.Internet companies would also have to build new tools that would enable blockling “unlawful information or content,” and would need to weaken privacy protections of messaging services, like WhatsApp, so that authorities can trace messages back to their original senders.What’s next? Public comment on the proposal has ended so Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government could implement the measures at any time. The administration has been eager to push this through before national election dates are announced, which would trigger special pre-election measures that limit new policies.Working independently as well as through trade groups, Microsoft, Facebook and dozens of other tech companies are fighting back against the proposals.As the U.S. works with the Taliban on a peace deal to end nearly two decades of war, many young Afghans are worried that the basic liberties they have become used to under a civilian government could be at risk.This year, Valentine’s Day turned into a day of protest, with poetry expressing not love but fear.One verse in particular — “I kiss you amid the Taliban” — has turned into a rallying cry for young artists and activists.Background: Last month, the Taliban and U.S. negotiators agreed in principle to a framework for the phased withdrawal of American troops, but the Afghan government has been left out of the process. And women, in particular, have voiced concerns about their rights in the future.Kashmir: A vehicle filled with explosives ran into a convoy of paramilitary forces in the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir, killing at least 40 soldiers — perhaps the deadliest attack there in 20 years. The Jaish-e-Muhammed, which the U.S. considers a terrorist organization, quickly claimed responsibility.Saudi Arabia: Apple and Google are being pressured to remove an app that lets male “guardians” track and restrict the movement of women in the kingdom, accusing the tech companies of enabling gender discrimination.Philippines: Maria Ressa, the co-founder of Rappler, a news start-up that has been critical of President Rodrigo Duterte, was released on bail a day after she was arrested in a digital libel case.Brazil: After a mining dam collapsed last month, burying more than a 150 people under mud, our team used geospatial analysis to map out other high risk areas.Switzerland: A warmer climate is rapidly melting away most of the glaciers in the Alps, and engineers are working on how to adjust their approach to the country’s biggest energy source — water.Ryan Adams: Seven women and over a dozen associates came forward with accounts of how the prolific singer-songwriter and ex-husband of Mandy Moore dangled career opportunities while pursuing female artists for sex. He has denied the accusations.Egypt: The country’s Parliament approved a sweeping measure that clears the way for President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to stay in power until 2034, further entrenching his authoritarian rule and the military’s dominance.Airbus: The aircraft maker said it would cease production of the mammoth double-decker A380. Orders for the plane dwindled as air travel shifted focus to smaller jets and regional airports.JPMorgan Chase: The financial giant became the first major U.S. bank to issue its own cryptocurrency. The JPM Coin, representing a single U.S. dollar, will enter testing in a few months.China: A new app designed by the government allows users to catch up on the latest state media reports, view a quote of the day from President Xi Jinping and quiz themselves on his policies. It’s Beijing’s latest effort to bring Communist Party propaganda initiatives into the digital age.Brexit: The increasingly messy divorce between Britain and the E.U. bloc is, according to the Dutch, akin to a furry blue monster.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Wait, you don’t need a recipe. Sam Sifton gives you 38 ways to get dinner on the table without one.The environmental impact of growing flowers commercially is higher than you might think. Here’s how a romantic can stay green.Considering a trip to one of our “52 Places to Go in 2019”? We’ve collected 52 books to help you explore each spot. Our Back Story on Wednesday on the Fahrenheit and Celsius scales included a fact surprising to us: The temperature scale devised by Anders Celsius in the early 18th century set the boiling point at zero degrees and the freezing point at 100, the opposite of current use.It was a surprise to some readers as well, who wrote in to ask if we had our facts straight.Fortunately, we did. Celsius was from Sweden, and wanted to be able to measure frigid temperatures without using negative numbers. That’s because the minus sign could be missed, resulting in errors.Many attribute the reversal to Carl Linnaeus, known as the father of taxonomy. Also a Swede, in the 1740s, he ordered a thermometer using Celsius’ gradations, but with calibration shifted to move in the same direction as Fahrenheit’s.Know of any other facts that are so counter to conventional wisdom or understanding that they sound wrong? Email us, with “Odd fact” in the subject line.Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Elijah Walker(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Just as we were publishing, news broke that Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder, accused the National Enquirer’s owner of trying to use “extortion and blackmail” against him. Here’s what else happened today.1. The latest in Virginia’s evolving political crisis: A powerful Republican, Thomas Norment, was the managing editor of a 1968 Virginia Military Institute yearbook that included photographs of students in blackface and slurs against African-Americans, Asians and Jews.Mr. Noment condemned the use of blackface in a statement.Three of the state’s top Democrats are also under fire. Gov. Ralph Northam admitted to wearing blackface in 1984; Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax, pictured above today, has been accused of sexual assault; and Attorney General Mark Herring admitted wearing blackface in 1980. All three have fended off any signal that they would resign.Other state lawmakers are answering questions about whether they have so-far-undisclosed misconduct. “I have never been in blackface, unequivocal,” said Kirk Cox, the Republican speaker of the House of Delegates and the next in line to the governorship after Mr. Herring._____2. The Trump administration is a step closer to getting an attorney general.The Senate Judiciary Committee voted along party lines to advance Mr. Trump’s nominee, William Barr, above. Next stop: the full Republican-controlled Senate. He could be sworn into office as soon as next week.Meanwhile, the acting attorney general, Matthew Whitaker, deepened tensions with House Democrats, insisting that he wouldn’t appear before the House Judiciary Committee as scheduled on Friday unless the panel pledged not to use subpoena power during the session to force him to answer questions._____3. House Democrats introduced an extraordinarily ambitious resolution to fulfill their “Green New Deal” pledges. It calls for the U.S. to pump no additional carbon into the atmosphere by 2030 while creating jobs and health care for millions.It was drafted by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward Markey of Massachusetts, above.But the legislative prospects for the measure are bleak in the foreseeable future. Speaker Nancy Pelosi would have to bring it to the floor for a vote, but she has no plans to do so. Her wariness stems, at least in part, from a decade ago, when she watched the Senate bury the last major climate change measure._____4. The 2008 financial crisis put a chill on big bank deals. That ended Thursday.BB&T said it planned to buy SunTrust Banks for about $28 billion. If approved, it would be the first big bank merger since the crisis and create the sixth-biggest bank in the United States. But analysts will be watching to see if regulators are hesitant to allow such mergers to resume. Above, BB&T headquarters in Winston Salem, N.C.Separately, Germany said that Facebook could no longer to combine users’ Facebook information with data about their activities on other sites without getting explicit permission, a decision that could have wide-ranging implications on the company’s ability to target advertising._____5. Countdown: 50 days to Brexit. The U.K. still doesn’t have a final plan.Prime Minister Theresa May headed to Brussels to try to reopen the 585-page withdrawal agreement with the European Union, which lays out a managed exit on March 29. But those talks were predictably inconclusive. However, the president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, above with Mrs. May, agreed to meet again by the end of the month.If no agreement is reached by the March deadline, Britain will crash out of the E.U., which experts have said would have dire consequences not just for its own economy but also other members of the bloc._____6. Speedskating on natural ice is a beloved Dutch national pastime. Unfortunately, that tradition can no longer be enjoyed in the Netherlands.Climate change means the winters are too warm for waterways to freeze consistently. The Elfstedentocht, a one-day, long-distance speedskating tour through 11 cities, was held in some form since the late 1700s, but was last skated on Dutch ice in 1997.Now, close to 6,000 Netherlanders travel to Austria for the event, the climate migrants of the sports world._____7. In one of our most read stories of the day, a contributing Opinion writer takes an unusual stance on helicopter parenting: It works.Pamela Druckerman, an American journalist who lives in Paris, cites research by an economist at Yale and another at Northwestern collected in a new book, “Love, Money and Parenting: How Economics Explains the Way We Raise Our Kids.” They found that an “intensive parenting style” correlated with higher test scores, and kids less likely to use drugs, smoke or abuse alcohol, and more likely to delay sex.“It’s true that high-octane, hardworking child-rearing has some pointless excesses, and it doesn’t spark joy for parents,” Ms. Druckerman writes. “But done right, it works for kids, not just in the United States but in rich countries around the world.”_____8. Erykah Badu emerged from the 1990s R&B scene as a heroine by insisting on her self-worth, selling millions of albums and easily passing from one era of pop music to the next.She’s also pursued enlightenment, advocating a fundamentalist kind of unconditional love (including for Adolf Hitler) that has drawn forceful criticism. “It’s O.K. to disagree with me, no problem, but you cannot censor how I feel,” she said in a Times interview.She also talked about her popularization of the expression “stay woke” and her new film, “What Men Want,” coming out Friday. It’s a gender-flipped remake of the 2000 Mel Gibson-Helen Hunt romantic comedy; our writer says her comic timing is “otherworldly.”_____9. Can’t judge a book by its cover? Not so fast.We asked designers how they get a concept from good to must-pick-up. “Sometimes it can be a painful process, but in the end when it turns out like this, it’s really gratifying,” said the designer of the highly esteemed cover for “I Will Be Complete,” Glen David Gold’s nearly 500-page memoir. His final design is seen above, center.There can also be more to the author than meets the eye. From “Frog and Toad” to “Where the Wild Things Are,” some enduring 20th-century children’s titles share a secret language of queer compassion. Our co-chief theater critic, Jesse Green, looks at the books he and his partner used to read to his sons.And another reviewer finds an “exquisitely moving portrait of the daily stuff of life” in Julie Yip-Williams’s memoir, “The Unwinding of the Miracle,” written before she died last year at the age of 42._____10. Lastly, we say goodbye to a barrier-breaking baseball player.Frank Robinson, a Hall of Fame slugger who hit 586 home runs over 21 seasons and became Major League Baseball’s first black manager, died at 83. He remains the lone player to be named M.V.P. in both the National and American leagues.In his memoir, he recalled receiving a standing ovation when he appeared at the helm of the Cleveland Indians at their season opener in 1975.“One hundred thousand fans could not have been louder,” he wrote. “After all the years of waiting to become a big league manager — ignored because so many team owners felt that fans would not accept a black manager — I was on the job and people were loudly pleased.”Have a good night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Monday. The first official day of spring is two days away.Weather: A slight chance of flurries early in the morning, but turning sunny and rising to the mid-40s.Alternate-side parking: In effect until Wednesday (suspended Thursday for Purim).It’s one of the biggest real estate projects in the country in recent years, and one of the biggest in New York since Rockefeller Center was completed 80 years ago.And taxpayers helped pay for this new $25 billion neighborhood.Hudson Yards officially opened on Friday. Want to visit? Here’s everything you’ll need to know:Where is it?Hudson Yards was built above the Metropolitan Transportation Authority rail yards on the West Side of Manhattan.What buildings are there?There’s a shopping mall between two office towers, 10 and 30 Hudson Yards. 50 Hudson Yards is to the north and under construction. Another office building is at 55 Hudson Yards.Then there’s 35 Hudson Yards, which is 1,000 feet high and includes shops, offices, a hotel and apartments. And over at 15 Hudson Yards, a residential building, there are separate entrances for the wealthy condo owners and the subsidized renters.The most eye-catching buildings are the Shed, a $500 million city-sponsored arts center, and the Vessel, a 150-foot-high, $200 million structure with 2,500 climbable steps.There’s also a major dining complex, with restaurants run by celebrity chefs like Thomas Keller, David Chang, Michael Lomonaco, Costas Spiliadis and José Andrés.Half a dozen buildings are slated for construction west of 12th Avenue.Who built all of this? Mainly Stephen Ross, a billionaire developer who will move into a penthouse at Hudson Yards.How much did it cost?The tax breaks and other government assistance for Hudson Yards have reached nearly $6 billion, according to public records and an analysis by the New School, my colleague Matthew Haag reported.That number is bigger than the $3 billion in tax breaks and incentives that were part of the failed attempt to entice Amazon to open a campus in Queens.The Hudson Yards package included:• $2.4 billion to extend the No. 7 subway line• $1.2 billion for about four acres of parks and open space• $359 million in interest payments on bonds when revenue from the development fell shortSome companies in New York City that planned to relocate to Hudson Yards were eligible for tax breaks:• $25 million for BlackRock• $5.5 million for L’Oréal USA• $14 million for WarnerMediaSupporters of the project point out that the subway line and the park space benefit not only Hudson Yards, but also the neighborhood in general.[Read about the tax breaks and incentives behind Hudson Yards.]Is Hudson Yards any good, architecturally speaking?The Times’s architecture critic, Michael Kimmelman, called the development a “relic of dated 2000s thinking, nearly devoid of urban design,” and akin to “glass shards on top of a wall.”“Hudson Yards glorifies a kind of surface spectacle — as if the peak ambitions of city life were consuming luxury goods and enjoying a smooth, seductive, mindless materialism,” he said.The open space, he continued, “looks like it may end up being mostly a fancy drive-through drop-off for the shopping mall, a landscaped plaza overshadowed by office towers.”[Read Mr. Kimmelman’s review.]What does Mr. Ross, the Hudson Yards developer, say about the project?Mr. Kimmelman asked, half-jokingly, “Do you imagine this as a museum of architecture?”“Yes, that’s exactly what we’re doing,” Mr. Ross said. “We are creating a museum of architecture and a whole new way of life.”He added, “This is New York as it should be, with everything you want at your doorstep.”The debate between housing and gardens is a no-brainer, says the columnist Ginia Bellafante.#Maga Church: A doomsday prophet says the Bible predicted President Trump.Welcome, refugees. Now pay back your travel loans.A dominatrix moved into Bedford-Stuyvesant, setting off a gentrification struggle.The police have charged a Staten Island man  with the murder of the reputed mob boss Francesco Cali, and officials say the killing might not be related to organized crime.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.The air quality in certain parts of the Bronx is dangerously unhealthy, according to a college student’s research. [amNew York]Poorer residents in Brooklyn get stuck with older M.T.A. buses. [Daily News]Why doesn’t New York State have license plates that honor the memory of Sept. 11? [New York Post]Why the developer Stephen Ross may be “the most powerful man in New York, a Robert Moses for our age of concierge mega-urbanism.” [New York magazine]Mayor de Blasio implied that an affair by Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, played a role in the company’s decision to cancel plans to build a major campus in Long Island City. [Politico NY]Practice Chinese calligraphy at Chatham Square Library in Manhattan. 1 p.m. [Free]Join the author Jennifer Weiss-Wolf and others at the Brooklyn Historical Society to discuss menstrual equity. 6:30 p.m. [$5]Make your way to the Comedy Carnival at Muchmore’s in Brooklyn for popcorn, cotton candy and Purim-themed fun. 9 p.m. [$5]— Derek NormanEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Many people rang in the new year in January.The Chinese New Year was in February.The Persian New Year is celebrated Thursday. It is called Nowruz and coincides with spring, which begins on Wednesday.Iranian holidays can be particularly difficult to celebrate in this country, as one Times op-ed contributor wrote last year: “While Chinese-Americans had Bruce Lee and Italian-Americans had Rocky Balboa, I had Ayatollah Khomeini and the hostage crisis.”Awkward.(Non-Iranians sometimes celebrate Nowruz, too, including former Mayor Michael Bloomberg.)On Friday, I spoke with Dr. Rosa Nouvini, who, like me, was born and raised in New York and is of Persian descent. She has been celebrating Persian holidays all her life and is steeped in the traditions.Compared with New Year’s Eve, “Nowruz has a deeper meaning for me,” Dr. Nouvini said. “It’s more togetherness, about roots.” She grew up on Long Island, recalling that her mother “would start spring cleaning a couple of weeks before” the occasion.The cleaning isn’t just symbolic: Nowruz is often celebrated by visiting family members at their homes.How can you set up a Nowruz get-together at your house?First, offer food. (New York Times Cooking has 22 easy-to-make recipes for the Persian New Year.)Second, put together a haft sin table, which contains seven items representing the things you’re grateful for and would like to see more of in the new year:• An apple, for beauty• Garlic, for good health• Vinegar, for patience• Hyacinth, for spring• Sweet pudding, for fertility• Sprouts, for rebirth• Coins, for prosperityThe tables in my family also have mirrors, representing a look into the future, and goldfish (real, or the snack), representing life.Or include something else to nibble on. All that cleaning can make a person hungry.It’s Monday — get your haft sin table ready.Dear Diary:We were apart for seven months. He was in Alabama, at Fort Rucker, and I was at Columbia. We spent three days together while he was on leave.The day before he left, we were on the No. 1. In the twitching subway light, a band swung into our car and seasoned the tight air: One musician kneaded a metallic accordion, and another sang.He smiled — there is a slight gap between his front teeth — and we danced. In the music, the moment felt infinite. I didn’t think about saying goodbye, about the distance from Alabama to New York. I just thought about him, on the No. 1, with me, swinging to the music.The next day he boarded his train at Penn Station. I walked to Times Square, crying and cold, and I caught the No. 1. After two stops, a band swung into the car: It was the one from the day before. I couldn’t help but smile and swing my hips to the music.— Emma O’LearyNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Trade talks between midlevel American and Chinese officials, extended from a planned two days to three, ended yesterday in Beijing after negotiators made progress but released few details.What happened: According to U.S. officials, negotiators discussed intellectual property protections, so-called forced tech transfer and China’s promise to buy “substantial” amounts of American agricultural, energy and manufacturing products. China’s commerce ministry spoke of “extensive, in-depth and meticulous exchanges.” Wang Qishan, China’s vice president, said today that the two countries “must adapt to the new reality, keep looking for and expanding our common interests, deepening and promoting practical cooperation.”What’s next: No date or location is set for the next round of talks. Higher-level discussions could occur in Davos, Switzerland, if President Trump attends the World Economic Forum meeting there, starting Jan. 22. But he may cancel if the partial government shutdown is not resolved by then. China’s economic czar is expected to visit Washington sometime after that. The Trump administration has set a March 2 deadline to wrap up negotiations, after which it says it could raise tariffs.What’s at stake: If China and the U.S. let tensions escalate and investors pull back, “you’re looking at enough of a tightening in financial conditions to say that a global recession is a real risk,” Peter Hooper, a former Federal Reserve official and Deutsche Bank’s chief economist, told Bloomberg.President Trump wants to calm volatile financial markets. And China’s leader, Xi Jinping, needs to perk up a slowing economy. A measure of factory prices in China last month showed the slowest increase since late 2016. Former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers told Bloomberg Television yesterday that there is “pretty clear evidence that things have slowed down a fair amount in China.”“There are a lot of grounds for concern,” he added.What else: • Auto importers in the Chinese port city of Tianjin are rushing to get American-made cars through customs, taking advantage of a temporary cut in the 40 percent tariff that Beijing imposed on them last July.• Amid suspicion from the F.B.I. and American universities, China is going quiet about its “Thousand Talents Program,” which has attracted thousands of scientists and experts to the country since 2008.• The Hang Seng stock index in Hong Kong recorded its best day in more than a month yesterday and closed on its fifth straight rally today. U.S. equities also rose, though not as much as in recent days.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Welcome to Day 20 of the shutdown, which could become the longest in history on Saturday. Yesterday, President Trump stormed out of a meeting with congressional leaders, throwing what Democrats described as a “temper tantrum” over his demand to fund a border wall, a key sticking point in talks to reopen the government. On Twitter, he called the session “a total waste of time.” The NYT writes:The contentious, brief and futile session underscored an impasse that is looking each day like an insurmountable gulf between the two sides.Today, President Trump will visit the border in McAllen, Tex. Yesterday, he reiterated a threat to invoke emergency powers to fund his wall without congressional approval. That, writes Charlie Savage in the NYT, “would be an extraordinary violation of constitutional norms — and establish a precedent for presidents who fail to win approval for funding a policy goal.”Some consequences of the stalemate:• In Washington, one of the richest areas in the country, it’s affecting retailers, tourist centers, salons, garbage bins and more.• Nationwide, restaurants struggling with a severe worker shortage said they will continue hiring even though they can no longer check recruits’ immigration status online.• Coast Guard employees received a five-page tip sheet suggesting that they could stay afloat without their paychecks through garage sales, babysitting, dog-walking, serving as “mystery shoppers” or, as a last resort, declaring bankruptcy.• This was expected to be a banner year for I.P.O.s. But with work halted at regulators, it could be only the fourth year since 1995 when no major company goes public in January. Other deals, including CVS’s purchase of Aetna, could also be delayed.Two Federal Reserve officials said yesterday that the central bank should assess economic conditions before it considers raising rates again. And they did so as the Fed released the minutes of its December meeting, showing that it reached the same conclusion.The takeaway: Central bank officials are now not likely to raise the benchmark interest rate at their January meeting nor at one in mid-March, writes the NYT’s Binyamin Appelbaum. But they still expect strong enough economic growth to justify increases this year.The reaction: Jerome Powell, the Fed chairman, was criticized for not saying more to soothe investors in December. “He could have handled that differently, and better,” one economist said. The dollar fell to a three-month low against the euro after the meeting minutes were released.The next step: The Fed is considering options to keep interest rates in its target range. One approach would be to slow the decline of bank reserves in the system.Theresa May, Britain’s prime minister, is getting backed into a corner over Brexit — and she knows it.Her plans for how Britain’s departure from the European Union will play out are strongly expected to be rejected by Parliament in a vote next week — two and a half years after Britons voted to leave the bloc in a referendum, and a month after this vote was first scheduled.Yesterday, lawmakers moved to block Mrs. May from stalling further. They have also passed a measure aimed at making it harder for the government to exit the E.U. without a deal.The withdrawal is scheduled for March 29. Many are concerned that, without an agreement with Brussels in place, economic chaos could ensue. Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, meets with Mrs. May today, and automakers such as Honda, Nissan and Toyota, which manufacture in Britain for export into continental Europe, are pushing him to press the case against a no-deal Brexit.Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, pushed for fresh elections if Parliament turns down Mrs. May’s plan. The British public is still deeply conflicted over the E.U., as shown in these charts from Bloomberg.President Moon Jae-in of South Korea has embraced a pro-labor program of higher wages and taxes, but the early results have been discouraging, writes the NYT’s Michael Schuman.Growth has slowed, unemployment has risen and small-business owners are complaining. The troubles suggest South Korea’s limits in solving economic problems, especially without addressing underlying structural issues. Rapid changes like Mr. Moon’s can also have unintended consequences. The biggest is the strain on small businesses, which are often unable to pass on higher costs to their customers.U.S.-North Korea talks:  A second summit meeting between the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Trump to negotiate the terms of denuclearizing the North is “close,” Mr. Moon said today after Mr. Kim’s visit to China this week. He added that North Korea should take more concrete steps to secure U.S. concessions.Fiat Chrysler Automobiles will pay nearly $650 million to settle lawsuits over illegal software that allowed diesel vehicles to thwart emissions tests and release higher levels of pollutants, according to the NYT.The settlement, which is expected to be announced today, does not include an admission of guilt by the company or a declaration of wrongdoing by the Environmental Protection Agency. Earlier, the agency found that Fiat used technology that could turn off pollution controls under certain driving conditions.The Justice Department sued Fiat over the issue in 2017. The company will recall 104,000 diesel-powered Ram 1500 trucks and Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility vehicles to install new software.Other auto news: • Tesla’s chief, Elon Musk, wrote on Twitter yesterday that it will stop selling the cheapest versions of its Model S sedan and Model X sport utility vehicle from Monday, and suggested that the upcoming Roadster sports car might be able to levitate.• Rolls-Royce had record sales last year, as wealthy buyers spent some of their gains from the Trump administration’s tax cuts.• Toyota is recalling 1.7 million vehicles in North America, 1.3 million in the U.S., to replace potentially lethal Takata front passenger airbag inflaters.• The Pixar co-founder John Lasseter, who resigned from Disney in June after complaints about unwanted touching, will build an animation production company affiliated with Paramount. (NYT)• Larry Fink, chief executive of the asset manager BlackRock, promoted Mark Wiedman to a new international role that positions him as a likely heir. (FT)• Greg Palm is retiring as Goldman Sachs’s co-general counsel after more than 20 years there. (Bloomberg)• Michael Bright, a top official at the government-owned mortgage guarantor Ginnie Mae, is said to be stepping down to join a trade group. (Bloomberg)• Gordon Brown, the former British prime minister, will advise the Partners Group, a private equity firm in Switzerland, on so-called impact investments. (WSJ)Deals• Edward Lampert, the hedge fund founder and chairman of Sears, has submitted a revised bid of roughly $5 billion in an effort to save the retailer from liquidation. (CNBC)Tech• Check out A.I. assistants, 5G wireless and other trends in a visual tour of the CES electronics trade show. (NYT)• Also at CES, a battle between two vegan burger start-ups. (FT)• Liverpool John Lennon Airport is testing anti-drone equipment after shutdowns at Heathrow and Gatwick. (FT)• Oracle has paid more than $200 million for naming rights to the San Francisco Giants’ stadium. (Bloomberg)• China’s top media regulator omitted Tencent from its list of approved video game titles. (FT)Politics and policy • Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, is expected to leave the Justice Department once an attorney general is confirmed. (NYT)• House Democrats have summoned Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to explain his plan to end sanctions on companies controlled by Oleg Deripaska, a Kremlin ally. (NYT)• Prime Minister Edouard Philippe of France promised to forge ahead with an economic overhaul, despite “yellow jackets” protests. (FT)• The billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer said he would not run for president in 2020, but would spend at least $40 million this year to promote impeaching President Trump. (WSJ)Best of the rest • Ford said today that it would cut thousands of jobs, exit unprofitable markets and discontinue loss-making vehicle lines as part of a turnaround effort in Europe. (Reuters)• The U.S. food company Mondelez sued its insurance company for refusing to pay a $100 million claim for damage caused by a cyber attack, the first legal dispute of this kind on that scale. (FT)• The Chrysler Building in New York is for sale. The current owners are an Abu Dhabi government fund and Tishman Speyer, a local developer. (WSJ)• Trend-following algorithms, an increasingly important market force, have turned bearish. (WSJ)• MacKenzie Bezos and the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos are divorcing. The split could make her the richest woman in the world, surpassing Francoise Bettencourt Meyers, from the family that founded L’Oreal cosmetics. (Bloomberg)• Ice Cube, the rapper, actor and entrepreneur, wants Viacom’s backing to bid for Fox’s 22 regional sports networks. (Fox)• Why do so many of Eastern Europe’s central bankers face criminal investigations? (Bloomberg)• Avocado demand and prices appear to be in retreat. (WSJ)• Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest oil producer, is likely to issue its first international bond to help finance its potentially $70 billion purchase of the petrochemical giant Sabic. That means disclosing accounts and operational details. (Bloomberg)• An Australian government review recommended closing underperforming funds in the country’s $2 trillion pension system, and letting new employees choose among top performers. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Friday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" Bruce Friedrich spent decades trying to persuade people to stop eating meat. When that didn’t work, he turned his focus to creating better alternatives.Bruce Friedrich, founder of the Good Food Institute, spent years as an activist trying to persuade people to stop eating meat. Now he’s trying to help companies create alternatives to animal protein.CreditCreditGabriella Demczuk for The New York TimesSupported byBy Nathaniel PopperSAN FRANCISCO — Bruce Friedrich used to be the guy who broke into fashion shows to splatter fake blood on the models wearing fur coats. That was when he wasn’t handing out pamphlets on campuses or creating videos to expose the grisly reality of meat production.But he realized at a certain point that his activism wasn’t achieving his goal — getting fewer people to kill, eat and wear animals.“We’ve tried to convince the world to go vegan, and it has not worked,” Mr. Friedrich said in a recent interview.These days, he is hoping capitalism might work where activism and persuasion fell short.The organization Mr. Friedrich founded in 2015, the Good Food Institute, is at the center of a new industry searching for alternatives to meat that make no sacrifices on taste or price. His organization, which is based in Washington, does everything from starting venture capital funds to making matches between investors and start-ups.The work has turned Mr. Friedrich, 49, into a spokesman of sorts for people who came to realize that making others feel bad about eating meat does not make them consume less of it.“You can turn blue in the face talking to people about how animals suffer,” said Suzy Welch, an animal activist and an author. “Then Bruce came and said, ‘There might be this alternative.’”Ms. Welch and her husband, Jack Welch, the former chief executive of General Electric, met Mr. Friedrich in 2015. Since then, the couple have become funders of the Good Food Institute, and they have relied on it to vet the half-dozen or so companies they have put money into.There are early signs that Mr. Friedrich’s strategy is making headway. Companies like Impossible Foods and Beyond Meat are becoming brand names. Sales of meat alternatives rose 22 percent last year, and 18 percent the year before, according to Euromonitor International.But it is also making Mr. Friedrich’s organization into a punching bag. The Good Food Institute has faced off against cattle ranchers, who have been promoting state-level legislation that would make it harder for start-ups to market their alternative proteins to meat eaters.When Mr. Friedrich wrote an essay for The Wall Street Journal, praising the food conglomerate Tyson for its embrace of plant-based proteins, he was denounced by meat lovers for peddling “self-righteous claptrap” and was hit by vegans for promoting processed foods from a company that still kills animals.“Don’t congratulate them!” one commenter chastised Mr. Friedrich. Now he spends more time thinking about the comments from meat eaters than about his longtime allies, the vegans.“I don’t care much if vegetarians or vegans are supportive,” he said. “We don’t want people to think differently about their food. We want to change the food.”Mr. Friedrich was raised in Norman, Okla., where his father was a university professor. He didn’t have much interaction with animals or agriculture, other than the occasional fishing trip with his grandfathers, which he looks back on with some regret.He was an activist from a young age, but his issue of choice was initially poverty. At Grinnell College, in Iowa, he ran the local branch of an organization focused on global poverty. After graduating, he moved to Washington, D.C., and spent six years living in and running the Catholic Worker homeless shelter, where he took a salary of $5 a week and wore the donated clothes other residents didn’t want.While today he is trim and clean shaven, back then he had the hippie Jesus look — long hair and a bushy beard.Mr. Friedrich grew up Lutheran and converted to Catholicism while living in the shelter, and his activism was partly a result of his faith. Unlike some activists, he said, he is not motivated by any sentimental or emotional attachment to other creatures.He became a vegan after reading the book “Diet for a Small Planet,” and he decided to dedicate his life to the cause while he was living in the shelter and read the book “Christianity and the Right of Animals.”“I didn’t have a particular affinity for animals,” he said. “I have a very German, logic-based temperament, for better and worse.”Mr. Friedrich got a job at People for the Ethical Treatment for Animals, and married another leader in the organization. They had one son, who is now grown up.During his nearly 15 years at PETA, he rose to be the head of public campaigns. He was responsible for some of the organization’s highest-profile campaigns, including Kentucky Fried Cruelty, Wicked Wendy’s and Murder King, which put a spotlight on the treatment of animals served by fast food chains.Mr. Friedrich was often on the front lines. He was arrested for the fake blood incidents at Fashion Week. He also stripped down and streaked in front of Buckingham Palace, with the website GoVeg.Com painted on his body, just before President George W. Bush arrived.But the provocateur was not dogmatic. Mr. Friedrich’s colleagues said he was willing to throw his old ideas and strategies overboard, even when it meant teaming up with former opponents.During the so-called McCruelty campaign, Mr. Friedrich went from demonstrating outside McDonald’s restaurants (with fake Unhappy Meals, filled with bloodied plastic chickens) to negotiating with the company and praising it when it improved the living conditions of its egg-laying hens.“He always had this ability to see potential friends and allies where others would only see enemies,” said Milo Runkle, who began as a volunteer at PETA under Mr. Friedrich and went on to found Mercy for Animals.Mr. Friedrich always thought the battle would be won by persuading people to stop eating meat. Many of the videos and documentaries he made were focused on winning over consumers, like the short documentary “Meet Your Meat,” narrated by Alec Baldwin.“I really thought we just needed to educate people about the fact that there is no moral difference between eating a pet and eating a farm animal,” he said. “For quite a while, I was talking about the inevitability of our victory, purely through education.”But the per capita consumption of meat in the United States kept going up. In faster-growing parts of the world like China and Brazil, the increase was even steeper.Mr. Friedrich took a break from PETA in 2009 and spent two years teaching English and civics at a high school in Baltimore.Those years coincided with the creation of start-ups looking to take on the meat industry. Beyond Meat was founded in 2009, and Impossible Foods began in 2011. There had been veggie burgers before, but the new companies focused on creating products that would taste enough like meat to appeal to carnivores.Almost all of the founders of these companies talk — like Mr. Friedrich — about coming to the business after realizing that the existing efforts to move people away from animal-based agriculture were not working.Pat Brown, the founder of Impossible Foods and a former professor at Stanford University, decided to form his company after organizing a conference about the problems created by animal agriculture and realizing how little impact the conference had.“All the education and all the awareness of the problem, and concern about the problem, doesn’t solve the problem” he said. “We just need to deliver the same value to consumers but use better technology to produce it.”Mr. Friedrich considered founding his own food start-up. But he decided he could make more of a difference by creating a nonprofit to provide a set of shared resources for all the companies in the industry.The Good Food Institute, which Mr. Friedrich founded with $540,000 from Mercy for Animals, has 65 employees and separate departments for lobbying, scientific research and corporate engagement.So far, plant-based meat companies have had the most success, but the Good Food Institute is also putting significant resources into helping companies that want to grow meat cells in labs.The idea is to create as many alternatives to meat as is possible, and Mr. Friedrich is using every tool at his disposal, from incubating new companies to starting venture capital funds, two of which have been spun out of the Good Food Institute.One of the grand pooh-bahs of Silicon Valley, Paul Graham, who founded Y Combinator, recently wrote on Twitter that he believed the start-ups would lead “a rapid switch away from meat at some point.”But Mr. Graham said he anticipated that one side effect would be a big hit to family farms, and more economic inequality.“The replacements for meat will be created by start-ups, which means more Bezoses,” he said, referring to Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos.Mr. Friedrich disagrees. He believes a move toward a more plant-based diet would help smaller farms at the expense of big meat conglomerates. But the shift “has to happen,” he said.“We need to change the meat, because we aren’t going to change human nature,” he said.Follow Nathaniel Popper on Twitter: @nathanielpoppper.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAlmost everyone had an opinion on the company’s reversal on a second headquarters in Queens.By Vivian Wang[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The news on Thursday that Amazon had decided not to build a second headquarters in New York City was an equal-opportunity stunner, to the politicians and activists who had fought against it, and to the business leaders and elected officials who had eagerly awaited it.Within minutes of the company’s announcement, reactions spilled out on social media and in the streets of Long Island City, Queens, the site of the now-abandoned plans for expansion. The company released a long statement on its blog at noon, a few minutes after The New York Times broke the story.“After much thought and deliberation, we’ve decided not to move forward with our plans to build a headquarters for Amazon in Long Island City, Queens,” the statement said. “For Amazon, the commitment to build a new headquarters requires positive, collaborative relationships with state and local elected officials who will be supportive over the long-term.”It continued: “A number of state and local politicians have made it clear that they oppose our presence and will not work with us to build the type of relationships that are required to go forward with the project we and many others envisioned.”Read the full statement. Mr. de Blasio and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo were the deal’s strongest proponents, having negotiated it together and presented it as a major triumph. For opponents of the plan, the mayor’s efforts suggested that he was not the progressive he had always claimed to be. His statement seemed aimed at walking back his support.“We gave Amazon the opportunity to be a good neighbor and do business in the greatest city in the world. Instead of working with the community, Amazon threw away that opportunity,” Mr. de Blasio said in a statement.“If Amazon can’t recognize what that’s worth, its competitors will.”Mr. Cuomo had spent much of the previous week attacking State Senate Democrats for their opposition to the deal, even though the ruling conference was not unanimous in its stance. On Thursday, he doubled down on that blame. “A small group politicians put their own narrow political interests above their community — which poll after poll showed overwhelmingly supported bringing Amazon to Long Island City — the state’s economic future and the best interests of the people of this state,” he said in a statement. “The New York State Senate has done tremendous damage. They should be held accountable for this lost economic opportunity.”Mr. Gianaris, of Queens, was one of the loudest opponents of the deal, which would have brought Amazon to his district. Earlier this month, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the leader of the Senate Democratic majority, recommended Mr. Gianaris to sit on a little-known state board that could have granted him veto power over the plan. Mr. Gianaris was triumphant on Thursday. He cited Amazon’s statement that it would still expand in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Staten Island.“Even by their own words, Amazon admits they will grow their presence in New York without their promised subsidies,” he said in an interview. “So, what was all this really about?”Ms. Stewart-Cousins said Amazon officials told her that her recommendation of Mr. Gianaris was not the tipping point in their decision. She criticized the secret negotiations that had created the deal to begin with.“In speaking to Amazon, they don’t lay the blame on any single entity. They realize that there was political opposition on every front,” she said in an interview. “And that is because this is a flawed process. The process should not get two years down the road, practically, before you actually bring in the community.”Mr. Johnson had applauded Mr. Gianaris’s efforts to block Amazon, and he affirmed his criticisms of the company on Thursday.“I hope this is the start of a conversation about vulture capitalism and where our tax dollars are best spent,” he said in a statement.Opponents to the deal constantly pointed to Amazon’s anti-union reputation. Amazon officials said at a recent hearing that they would not remain neutral if their employees tried to unionize. But the city’s unions were divided on the deal, and their reaction to its collapse was equally split.The Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, which had vehemently opposed the deal — Amazon presents a direct threat to retail workers — said the company had taken an unacceptable, uncompromising approach.“Rather than addressing the legitimate concerns that have been raised by many New Yorkers, Amazon says you do it our way or not at all, we will not even consider the concerns of New Yorkers,” Chelsea Connor, a spokeswoman for the union, said.But Hector Figueroa, the president of the 32BJ Service Employees International Union, called the deal’s demise “a lost opportunity” for labor to “actually organize and improve working conditions at Amazon.” Mr. Figueroa’s union represents workers, including office cleaners and security officers, who would have benefited from the influx of jobs.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, the superstar first-year congresswoman who represents parts of the Bronx and Queens, was one of the first politicians to attack the deal.”Anything is possible,” she wrote on Twitter on Thursday. “Today was the day a group of dedicated, everyday New Yorkers & their neighbors defeated Amazon’s corporate greed, its worker exploitation, and the power of the richest man in the world.”Ms. Cerbone strongly supported having Amazon come to the neighborhood.“I’m really upset, because I don’t think they realized what they did,” she said of the politicians who opposed the deal. “And they’re proud of it? They think they did something lovely? They wanted the political gain, they should have done it in a different way. They get put into office for us, not to work for themselves.”Referring to a local public housing complex, she said: “I know people who live in Queensbridge. I know the people who actually needed these jobs. And I know the businesses who are going to suffer because of this.”Kathryn Wylde, the head of the Partnership for New York City, a powerful business association, said the city should have seen the company’s exit coming.“How can anyone be surprised?” she said. “We competed successfully, made a deal and spent the last three months trashing our new partner.”The reception Amazon received, she added, sent a “pretty bad message to the job creators of the city and the world.”Thomas J. Grech, the president of the Queens Chamber of Commerce, said that no words could convey “the sadness and dismay at the loss of this historic opportunity.”He added: “An entire generation will look back at the these last few months and ask us why. I hope those that opposed this Amazon deal have the answers to what we lost today.”Julie Samuels, the executive director of Tech:NYC, a coalition of technology companies that includes Facebook and Google, said Amazon’s decision could hurt New York’s ability to attract talent in the field.“New York City is today one of the most dynamic tech hubs in the world, but there is no guarantee we will maintain this status in the future,” she said in a statement.Ms. Warren, a presidential candidate from Massachusetts who has made fighting income inequality and corporate influence a central plank of her campaign, wrote on Twitter that giant corporations were holding democracy “hostage.”“Amazon — one of the wealthiest companies on the planet — just walked away from billions in taxpayer bribes, all because some elected officials in New York aren’t sucking up to them enough,” she said.Grass-roots groups had rallied against the deal since it was announced. They spent last weekend canvassing to build opposition.New York City’s chapter of the Democratic Socialists of America said its members had been part of an “unprecedented mobilization” against a company that wanted to “crack down on unions and workers’ rights, increase deportations of our immigrant neighbors, and fuel gentrification and rising rents.”Make the Road New York, an immigrants’ rights group, said the decision was proof that “people power wins, even against the world’s richest man,” referring to Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos.CAAAV Organizing Asian Communities was blunt about the Valentine’s Day breakup.“It’s not us, Amazon,” the group wrote on Twitter. “It’s you.”Patrick McGeehan, Willie Neuman, Corey Kilgannon and Jesse McKinley contributed reporting.Vivian Wang is a reporter for the Metro Desk, covering New York State politics in Albany. She was raised in Chicago and graduated from Yale University.  @vwang3 Advertisement"
" 
APRIL 10, 2019

Paul Rudnick’s original play “Presidential,” written for T’s Culture issue.
By Paul Rudnick  APRIL 10, 2019A Georgetown family room, 2023.IVANKA     We need to talk, please put that thing down.JARED     But it’s so cool, see, the hologram of Aquaman appears before the United Nations Security Council and thanks me for ending all wars everywhere.IVANKA     It’s a video game.JARED     Then Thor says that I saved his home planet of Asgard …IVANKA     We need to decide which one of us should be the next president. I’ve done a PowerPoint thing, listing our individual strengths. I’m smart, beautiful, gracious and everyone in China thinks I’m an enchanted princess. On your side, while you’re underweight and unfocused, you always remember to look at me like I might be a mermaid. And we both have wonderfully high-pitched, featherlight speaking voices.JARED     I always try to imagine that I’m whispering a poem to my favorite stuffed animal on a rainy day.IVANKA     I would ask my dad what we should do, but the warden confiscated his phone again because he won’t stop tweeting about how he’s in the biggest prison ever, reserved for only the most important criminals. Only he keeps misspelling Sing Sing. The first time he called it Sing Song, then Ring Ring, and now it’s Sing-a-Lago.JARED     Before we decide anything, we should ask our kids if they’re O.K. with the whole deal.IVANKA     They’re so adorable. This morning they marched into my dressing room while my assistants were buttoning me up and pretending to be bluebirds. Then the kids presented me with a notarized document saying that while it’s no reflection on us, they want to make their own way in the world and be judged on their own merits, so they’re all changing their last name.JARED     That’s so cute! To what?IVANKA     “Clinton.”JARED     But if I become president, I can finally reveal my plan for feeding the hungry, ending climate change and bringing peace to all nations.IVANKA     So how would you do it?JARED     Why do you have to be like that?IVANKA     I’m sorry, I’m so sorry, I didn’t mean to badger you …JARED     How many times do I have to tell you, it’s a SECRET plan!IVANKA     But come on, can’t you give me one tiny little hint?JARED     O.K., one word: golf carts.IVANKA     Whoa.JARED     I know! But if you’re president, what will you do?IVANKA     I’ll keep empowering women everywhere, sometimes by pulling my hair back in a sleek, high ponytail and other times by doing my signature facial expression. Watch, I’m going to do it now. I’m widening my eyes just a bit, I’m tilting my head down and putting my forefinger on my chin, but just gently, so I don’t look smushed in photos. I call this expression Listening and Learning, and it’s copyrighted. O.K., tell me something really important, and I’ll do the face.JARED     Um … Chris Christie has a nuclear weapon in a Styrofoam cooler in the trunk of his Datsun.IVANKA     See, I’m doing the face, so while I look concerned and empathetic, I have no idea what you just said.JARED     That’s awesome!IVANKA     Who would you pick as your running mate?JARED     You. Duh. So I wouldn’t have to remember a new name.IVANKA     But that makes me feel bad, because I wasn’t going to pick you. I would choose Jeanine Pirro because when I stand next to her I seem sane by comparison. Or I might pick Ariana Grande, because young people like her.JARED     Not anymore. Not since she became the governor of Minnesota.IVANKA     Fine, then maybe I’ll just keep Mike Pence.JARED     That’s so mean!IVANKA     I know, he was so heartbroken after my dad, you know, took a break, and even the Republicans said, “Instead of Pence, let’s make Lindsey Graham the new president.”JARED     Poor Lindsey.IVANKA     It’s tragic. There he was, president of the United States, but since for the first time in his life he didn’t have anyone to bad-mouth and then suck up to, he had that complete nervous collapse. The Secret Service found him talking to a velvet-upholstered settee in the Lincoln Bedroom and telling it, “I support you 100 percent, Your Highness.”JARED     And then Mike Pence got his hopes up all over again.IVANKA     Until Congress voted to make that settee president instead.JARED     Which would inspire my campaign slogan: “Vote for Jared — another great piece of furniture.”IVANKA     I love that. My campaign logo would be a photo of me handing a purse from my discontinued fashion collection back to the teenager in Romania who made it.JARED     I’m just going to float this idea: What if we both ran for president?IVANKA     Against each other? But sweetheart, I’d slaughter you in the debates. Even when we watch “Jeopardy!” you always start sobbing and saying, “But doesn’t it count as a question if my voice goes up at the end of the sentence?”JARED     No, I meant, what if we ran as a couple? As co-presidents? With Eric and Donald Jr. as our co-vice-presidents?IVANKA     But Eric and Donald Jr. are still in hiding, ever since they saw that last “Jumanji” sequel in Imax 3-D and decided that the animals were coming after them.JARED     What if Melania is our vice president?IVANKA     But after the divorce, when she married Jeff Bezos, she said that she wanted to stay out of the spotlight. She said that she only wanted to exist as an app where people could admire photos of her and make only positive, life-enhancing comments like, “For the first time I finally understand leather leggings with stretch.”JARED     What about Tiffany?IVANKA     My half sister?JARED     I’ve noticed that you always introduce her that way, by saying, “This is my half sister, Tiffany.” At first I thought that meant her body stopped at the waist.IVANKA     I love my half sister Tiffany. She finished law school and she’s smart and pretty. She’s like if Mike Pence became sentient.JARED     Wait, what does that last word mean? I know, I know, Google it, or ask Giuliani.IVANKA     I love that we named our new hamster Giuliani. Because it was so sad when the real Rudy went on trial in The Hague, after his appearances on Fox News were declared crimes against humanity.JARED     So when we’re co-presidents, because of #MeToo, I’ll just wear my navy blazer and sit quietly and play video games.IVANKA     While I do my Listening and Learning face! I'm working on adding a new feature, where I purse my lips slightly to show reaching out. I’m calling it Listening and Learning and Demonstrating All-Purpose Compassion.JARED     But who do you think the Democrats will run against us?IVANKA     Bernie Sanders looks great with his new hairpiece, which he’s justifying by claiming that under his administration, hairpieces will be available to everyone regardless of gender identity, race or household income. And Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez wants to run, but I can demolish her by going on any Fox News show and asking, “Does America really want a brunette?” I think the only candidate we really have to worry about is Chelsea Clinton.JARED     I would vote for her. I know, I’m sorry, you told me to stop saying that.IVANKA     Chelsea and I used to be friends, and I hate that we’re not anymore. So maybe we could all run a transparent and fair-minded campaign, without partisan rancor or mudslinging. Jared, stop it. We’ve talked about your giggling.JARED     Because it’s not presidential. Like tuneless humming or fidgeting or chasing cars.IVANKA     Thank you. Our only real obstacle to leadership is the notion that we’re completely unqualified and were only given White House jobs because of the worst kind of nepotism.JARED     But how do we fight that?IVANKA     By both of us using this auxiliary blank facial expression and replying, “Those accusations are hurtful,” and then doing a photo op where we hold hands and stride purposefully across a lawn.JARED     But where are we striding to?IVANKA     A bright future. Or brunch.JARED     Can we have pancakes where they use pineapple slices and sprinkles and whipped cream to make a smiley face?IVANKA     You bet. Because we’re going to be president together, only I’ll be a little more president than you. But together we’ll be president of the United States of us!CELIA KEENAN-BOLGER wears a Michael Kors Collection dress, $1,895, saks.com, and her own earrings. GIDEON GLICK wears a J.Crew jacket, $228, pants, $128, and shirt, $70, jcrew.com, and Paul Smith tie, $125, paulsmith.com. Cover photograph by Todd Hido. Styled by Tracey Nicholson. Hair by Marki Shkreli using Marki. Grooming by Yui Ishibashi using MAC Cosmetics. Set design by Colin King. Photographed at United Palace Theater. Digital tech: Michael O’Shea. Photo assistants: Jonathan Bumble and Paul Storey. Hair assistants: Yasu Nakamura, Natasha Taylor and Jenny Wimmerstedt. Makeup assistant: Evyta Soendoro. Stylist’s assistants: Sergio Mejia, Gabe Gutierrez and Susan Walsh. Tailoring: Martin Keen and Angie Bilotti.Paul Rudnick lives in New York City. He is currently working on the Broadway musical version of “The Devil Wears Prada,” with a score by Elton John.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. President Trump plans to declare a national emergency, Amazon nixes a New York headquarters and Britain’s Parliament delivered more Brexit chaos. Here’s the latest: A two-month war of attrition between the president and Congress has effectively ended, but at the possible cost of a new battle. The White House announced that President Trump would sign a border deal passed by the Senate that averts a partial government shutdown, but also that he would declare a national emergency in order to circumvent Congress and unilaterally allocate billions of dollars for his promised border wall. Here’s how a national emergency declaration would work. It could provoke a constitutional clash between the president and Congress over control of the federal purse. Lawmakers would have two avenues of opposition: legislation, which Mr. Trump could veto, and the courts.Legal specialists warned of high long-term costs to American democracy.Other news from Washington: Andrew McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director, said the agency was so alarmed by Mr. Trump’s decision to fire the bureau’s director, James Comey, in 2017 that Justice Department officials considered encouraging cabinet members to invoke a constitutional amendment to remove him from office.And the Senate confirmed William Barr as attorney general, despite concerns from Democrats that he might not make public the findings of his department’s Russia investigation.The technology giant announced that it would not “move forward” with plans to build a sprawling corporate campus in Long Island City, Queens, after stiff opposition from some local lawmakers and unions empowered by the rise of Democratic political strength.Amazon had forecast that the campus would have created more than 25,000 jobs.The opposition: A point of contention was the $3 billion package of incentives and subsidies the city and state agreed to — their largest ever, dedicated to one of the world’s richest companies. City officials had also agreed to remake plans for the Queens waterfront and give the company’s chief, Jeff Bezos, access to a helicopter pad.There was also concern over the company’s anti-union practices and the changes its huge presence would bring to Queens. Before Amazon’s announcement, we looked at the resistance.Prime Minister Theresa May’s efforts to salvage her Brexit plan suffered a significant parliamentary defeat. Details: Parliament rejected a motion in support of Mrs. May’s tattered Brexit strategy, which hinges on reopening negotiations with the E.U. The motion was intended to reassure the E.U. that Parliament would back Mrs. May in any negotiations. Instead, lawmakers show that they aren’t rallying around her or any plan. The debate: The motion was defeated because of a widening divide within the Conservative Party over whether Britain should take a “no-deal” Brexit off the table. Hard-line Brexit supporters want to lord the possibility over the E.U. as leverage, and sunk the motion to assert that prerogative. But the Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, warned Britain that the balance of power was not in its favor and that it was becoming a “middling economy.” Looking ahead: Several ministers are threatening to resign if Mrs. May hasn’t secured a revised deal with the E.U. by Feb. 27. Some analysts believe the outcome of Brexit will remain unclear until a few days before the March 29 deadline. As the U.S. works with the Taliban on a peace deal to end nearly two decades of war, many young Afghans worry that the basic liberties they have become used to under a civilian government could be at risk.This year, Valentine’s Day turned into a day of protest, with poetry expressing not love but fear. One verse in particular — “I kiss you amid the Taliban” — has become a rallying cry.Background: Last month, the Taliban and U.S. negotiators agreed in principle to a framework for the phased withdrawal of American troops, but the Afghan government has been left out of the process. Women in particular have voiced concerns about their rights.E.U. economy: The German economy did not grow in the year’s final quarter, the government said. The news is partly an effect of President Trump’s trade policies and is a bad sign for Europe, where the middle-class has shrunk in most places since the late-2000s recession.Iran: Vice President Mike Pence lashed out at Britain, France and Germany at a conference on Middle East security, accusing them of trying to “break American sanctions” against Iran and demanding that they abandon the Iranian nuclear accord. His attempts to wrangle an anti-Iran alliance led to awkward moments. Switzerland: A warmer climate is rapidly melting away most of the glaciers in the Alps, and engineers are adjusting their approach to the country’s biggest energy source — water.Climate change: Thousands of young people in Britain are expected to take to the streets on Friday to join a growing youth-led movement across Europe protesting insufficient action on climate change. India: Prompting comparisons to censorship in China, India’s government proposed giving itself enormous new powers to suppress internet content. Critics say the regulations would be unconstitutional. Egypt: The country’s Parliament approved a sweeping measure that clears the way for President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to stay in power until 2034, further entrenching his authoritarian rule and the military’s dominance.Chad: French airstrikes against Chadian rebels this month in support of Chad’s longtime autocratic ruler, Idriss Déby, unsettled members of the opposition and resurfaced questions about whether France operates as a neocolonial power in parts of Africa. Sweden: The country placed its ambassador to China under investigation after she was accused of arranging unauthorized, secret talks to free a detained Swedish bookseller.Britain: A 19-year-old woman who left Britain in 2015 to join ISIS and recently fled its last speck of territory in Syria told a newspaper that she was nine months pregnant and wanted to come home. But her future is deeply uncertain. Ryan Adams: Seven women and over a dozen associates came forward with accounts of how the prolific singer-songwriter dangled career opportunities while pursuing female artists for sex. He has denied the accusations.London: The Japanese architect Junya Ishigami will design this year’s Serpentine Pavilion, a temporary structure put up each summer in Hyde Park. Overlooked no more: Mabel Grammer’s self-run adoption agency made it possible for marginalized mixed-race children in Germany to find homes after World War II. She didn’t get a Times obituary, until now. Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Looking for a light meal? Serve simmered kabocha squash over rice with a fried egg. The environmental impact of growing flowers commercially is higher than you might think. Here’s how a romantic can stay green.Considering a trip to one of our “52 Places to Go in 2019”? We’ve collected 52 books to help you explore them.Our Back Story on Wednesday on the Fahrenheit and Celsius scales included a fact surprising to us: The temperature scale devised by Anders Celsius in the early 18th century set the boiling point at zero degrees and the freezing point at 100, the opposite of current use.It was also a surprise to some readers, who wrote in to ask whether we had our facts straight.Fortunately, we did. Celsius, from Sweden, wanted to be able to measure frigid temperatures without using negative numbers, because the minus sign could be overlooked, resulting in errors.Many attribute the reversal to Carl Linnaeus, known as the father of taxonomy. Also a Swede, he ordered a thermometer in the 1740s using Celsius gradations, but with calibration shifted to move in the same direction as Fahrenheit’s.Know of any other facts that are so counter to conventional understanding that they sound wrong? Email us, with “Odd fact” in the subject line.Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. The India-Pakistan crisis flares up again, China recruits ethnic Muslim minorities to arrest their peers in Xinjiang and crocodiles spark panic in the Philippines. Here’s the latest: The two nuclear-armed neighbors exchanged artillery fire on Saturday, killing at least five civilians and two soldiers.The recent flare-up, with both sides accusing the other of firing first, came just a day after Pakistan returned a captured Indian pilot as a goodwill gesture in a conflict that seems far from over.Dispute: Independent security analysts continue to question India’s claim that it targeted a “large number” of terrorists at a major training camp in Pakistan last week. Satellite imagery of the area showed India “didn’t hit their targets,” according to a think tank in Washington.Go deeper: After an aging Indian warplane was shot down by Pakistan, New Delhi’s military preparedness is receiving renewed scrutiny, particularly as the U.S. looks to strengthen its alliance with India to help keep China in check.The Indian military is in such a troubled state that, according to government estimates, if intense warfare broke out tomorrow, its troops would only have ammunition for 10 days. On the ground: Kashmir’s complicated history, tugged in different directions by two muscular powers, has left its local population living with the constant threat of death and an uncertain future.Perspective: In an Op-Ed essay, the author Basharat Peer blames both India and Pakistan for creating such a hostile environment in Kashmir that a young man would turn to a terrorist group and carry out a suicide bombing, setting off the latest crisis and bringing both countries to the brink of war.In the past few years, as China stepped up its crackdown on Muslim minorities in the western Xinjiang region, it leaned on officers from those same targeted ethnic groups, putting them in the uncomfortable position of monitoring and arresting members of their own communities.How we know: One former police officer, Baimurat, an ethnic Kazakh Muslim who managed to escape, offered The Times a rare, firsthand glimpse into the security apparatus of the region, where the government has detained as many as a million ethnic Uighurs, Kazakhs and other Muslim minorities in a network of widely condemned indoctrination camps.Details: In 2016, after a series of anti-government attacks in Xinjiang, the Chinese government escalated its effort to crackdown on minorities there to turn them into loyal supporters of the party and get them to give up their Islamic faith.That’s when the region’s security forces began recruiting people from those targeted groups, like Mr. Baimurat, who had returned after a stint in Kazakhstan. He said his job included examining travelers at police checkpoints, monitoring mobile phones for any content considered subversive and taking handcuffed people into facilities that were basically prisons.Officers like him, said Mr. Baimurat, were also closely scrutinized for any signs of disloyalty. They were required to attend political indoctrination meetings and prohibited from speaking anything but Chinese.“I came to regret ever coming back to China,” he said.The Pentagon will hold off on large-scale military exercises with South Korea this spring, according to two American officials, as the Trump administration tries to maintain a fragile truce with North Korea and pushes for a resolution after nuclear talks in Vietnam collapsed last week.President Trump first suspended the military exercises, originally intended as a deterrent against North Korea, after his first meeting with Kim Jong-un last year in a move that took the Pentagon by surprise.Go deeper: The recent meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim was doomed before it even started, as both sides went in with drastically different visions and an inability to agree on a basic starting point.Since 2017, the western state of Rakhine has turned into a global byword for ethnic cleansing, as members of the Buddhist majority unleashed a widespread rampage against the Muslim Rohingya ethnic group. The U.N. has labeled the violence a genocide.But a recent flare-up in violence there now focuses on another ethnic group, the Buddhist Rakhine group, whose shared faith with the country’s dominant group, the Bamar, has not fostered a sense of unity.Details: In January, the Arakan Army, a Buddhist Rakhine militant group, attacked four police bases in the state, killing 14 officers. The assault elicited a brutal response from the Myanmar Army with fatal clashes continuing through February.History: Rakhine State was once an independent kingdom known as Arakan and the ethnic group there claims that they have been left out of the economic development of Myanmar, feeding a rising nationalist sentiment.The Arakan Army, which was founded a decade ago and has killed hundreds of soldiers, aims to take back the state. Huawei: This week Canada will begin the extradition hearing of Meng Wanzhou, a top executive at the Chinese technology company who is wanted in the U.S. on fraud charges. Ms. Meng was arrested in December at the request of the U.S., hurting relations between China and Canada.Saudi Arabia: Walid Fitaihi, a U.S. citizen initially detained at the Ritz Carlton hotel in Riyadh as part of what the Saudi government has billed as a crackdown on corruption, has been imprisoned without any public charges or trial since 2017. His friend says he has also been tortured — including being shocked with electricity and whipped.Syria: The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons found “reasonable grounds” that chlorine weapons were used in the assault on the town of Douma last year that killed 43 people. The U.S. and its allies blamed President Bashar al-Assad for the attack and launched punitive airstrikes against government targets at the time.Philippines: Crocodiles are a growing nuisance in some parts of the archipelago, with the reptiles increasingly attacking human settlements, prompting people to seek revenge. But the animals are a protected species and some consider them sacred.Britain: Landlord checks on a prospective tenant’s immigration status lead to racial discrimination and violate human rights, a court found. The ruling dealt a blow to Prime Minister Theresa May, who has championed “hostile environment” policies that leave nonwhite British citizens having to prove their status repeatedly as well.Jeff Bezos: For years, Amazon’s chief executive kept a low profile. But in recent weeks, his focused and discreet personality has become tangled in Hollywood’s gossip machine, with his private life and family drama splashed all over the news media.Kidfluencers: Brands like Mattel and Crayola are striking lucrative deals with toddlers and tweens with large social media followings (some deals can fetch from $10,000 to $50,000) in an effort to get their products in front of a generation that spends more time online than watching TV.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Start the week with a bracing, spicy dinner of vegetarian mapo tofu.If you have friends or loved ones who are survivors of sexual abuse or assault, here are ways you can help their recovery.Traveling while holding down a full-time job sounds too good to be true. But it can be done.On Tuesday, the end of the women’s ready-to-wear season in Paris, the last of Karl Lagerfeld’s enormous sets for Chanel will be revealed — the final gesture of a man who shaped fashion as we know it. He died on Feb. 19.Though many designers have created dramatic shows — most notably Alexander McQueen, John Galliano when he headed his own brand and currently Thom Browne — none reached the extremes of Mr. Lagerfeld. He once imported (and then returned) a Swedish iceberg, had a rocket launch and created a sandy beach with real surf — all within the glass-roofed confines of the Grand Palais.Though I was never as big a fan of these fantasy moments as many peers were (I believed the money could be better spent elsewhere, like on a charitable foundation), they were the markers of a time that is coming to a close, symbols of a vision that bridged the couture and Instagram eras.Get ready for the farewell hurrah. Given that Mr. Lagerfeld never did anything by half measures, it is bound to be a doozy.Vanessa Friedman, the chief fashion critic at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. Follow her on Twitter for live updates from this week’s show.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a new report about Jared Kushner’s security clearance, the aftermath of the failed U.S.-North Korea talks, and details of a peace plan in Afghanistan.Mr. Trump overruled concerns from intelligence officials last year and ordered his chief of staff to give top-secret security clearance to Mr. Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser, according to four people briefed on the matter.John Kelly, then the White House chief of staff, wrote an internal memo saying he had been “ordered” to grant the clearance. The top White House lawyer at the time, Donald McGahn, also wrote a memo outlining his reservations. The president told The Times in January that he had taken no role in Mr. Kushner’s receiving his clearance. Background: Mr. Kushner’s initial background check took more than a year. Officials had raised questions about his ties to overseas governments and investors, and about his initially unreported contacts with foreigners.Response: A spokesman for Mr. Kushner’s lawyer said on Thursday: “In 2018, White House and security clearance officials affirmed that Mr. Kushner’s security clearance was handled in the regular process with no pressure from anyone. That was conveyed to the media at the time, and new stories, if accurate, do not change what was affirmed at the time.”The two sides traded blame on Thursday after the second summit meeting between President Trump and North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, collapsed with no deal.Mr. Trump said Mr. Kim was unwilling to dismantle enough of his nuclear weapons program to warrant lifting sanctions, an assertion the North later disputed.News analysis: Mr. Trump negotiated directly with North Korea, an approach his predecessors avoided. The risk of doing so is that if you fail, there are few places to go, our national security correspondent writes.What’s next? History suggests that the North Koreans may try to pressure Mr. Trump by escalating. The North has the world’s fastest-growing nuclear arsenal.The Daily: Today’s episode investigates why the meeting fell apart.All American troops would withdraw from the country within the next five years under a new Pentagon proposal being discussed in peace talks with the Taliban.The plan would transfer responsibility for training the Afghan military to international troops, and largely shift American operations to counterterrorism strikes. It has been met with broad acceptance in Washington and among NATO officials.Negotiations with the Taliban to end the war, now in its 18th year, resume on Saturday.How we know: Parts of the plan were shared with The Times by more than a half-dozen current and former American and European officials. The party’s leaders emphasized on Thursday that they intend to pursue multiple investigations of President Trump’s actions rather than an effort to impeach him, after this week’s testimony by Michael Cohen. That position puts the leadership at odds with some rank-and-file Democrats and liberal activists.Another angle: It’s unclear whether Mr. Cohen’s testimony about Mr. Trump’s potentially criminal conduct will shift opinion on either the left or the right. But he did implicate Allen Weisselberg, the Trump Organization’s longtime chief financial officer, who may now face further scrutiny. “Leaving Neverland,” which appears on HBO starting Sunday, is a four-hour movie about the musician’s alleged pedophilia, focused on the stories of two men who say they were his victims as children.Our critic at large, Wesley Morris, writes about wrestling with his fandom as the agonizing stories unfold. India-Pakistan tensions: Pakistan released an Indian pilot today who was shot down during this week’s escalating tensions between the two countries.The 2020 election: Jay Inslee, the governor of Washington who has made climate change and the environment his signature issues, joined the crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates today.Indictment near for Netanyahu: Israel’s attorney general has announced a plan to indict Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust.An appeal to Amazon: Gov. Andrew Cuomo has been working behind the scenes to persuade the company to resurrect its plans to open a campus in New York City, including a personal pitch to Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder.Departure at HBO: The cable network’s chief executive, Richard Plepler, is leaving after 27 years there. He is said to have felt that he had less autonomy since AT&T acquired HBO’s owner, Time Warner, last year.Snapshot: Above, Edda, a pug that officials seized from a family in Germany and then sold on eBay for 750 euros, roughly $850, to cover an unpaid tax bill. On Thursday, a spokesman for the city of Ahlen called it “a pragmatic solution” to an outstanding debt, but the case has prompted outrage from animal rights activists and others.In memoriam: André Previn, an Oscar- and Grammy-winning composer, conductor and pianist, blurred the boundaries between jazz, pop and classical music. He died on Thursday at 89.Phone review: Samsung’s new Galaxy S10 Plus is an excellent (albeit $1,000) device with an innovative wide-angle camera. But it lags Apple in biometrics, our technology columnist writes.Record baseball contract: Bryce Harper has reached a free-agent deal with the Philadelphia Phillies for 13 years and $330 million, the most ever guaranteed to a baseball player.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Late-night comedy: Jimmy Kimmel assessed President Trump’s summit meeting in Vietnam: “He flew over there and got nothing — like the Fyre Festival.” What we’re reading: Chris, your Morning Briefing writer, recommends this Pulitzer Prize-winning piece from 2007 in The Washington Post. “The violinist Joshua Bell performed a recital in London this week that I was lucky enough to attend. Twelve years ago, The Post (my employer at the time) conducted an experiment in which he played in a Washington subway station during the morning rush hour. Virtually no one stopped to listen.”Cook: Cauliflower gets the Philippine adobo treatment in this vegetarian dish.Watch: “Free Solo,” the Oscar-winning documentary about the rock climber Alex Honnold, is among our small-screen recommendations for the weekend.Go: When in Venice, join the locals for cicchetti, the Italian version of tapas.Read: Clive Thompson, a longtime tech writer, brings an anthropologist’s eye to the world of programming in “Coders: The Making of a New Tribe and the Remaking of the World.” It’s one of 12 books to watch for in March.Smarter Living: When you’re cleaning out your closet, try finding a new life for your unwanted clothes, whether by selling, donating or recycling them. In 2015 Americans sent 10.5 million tons of textiles to the dump and just 2.5 million tons to be recycled.We also have ideas on how to keep fresh on long days of travel.Theodor Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, was born 115 years ago on Saturday.He had a unique take on the English language. His inventive use of rhythm and rhyme is at once ridiculous and intoxicating to children and parents alike.His titles have sold a staggering 650 million copies in more than 45 languages — including Latin, Hebrew and Catalan — and are available in 110 countries.This global expansion came with a tricky obstacle: how to translate him.“The challenge is staying true to the original books while being sensitive to the local market,” says Susan Brandt, the president of Dr. Seuss Enterprises. “And not lose the magic.”The solution? Hire local poets to work with translators. That’s how “Snuvs” from “Oh, the Thinks You Can Think!” became “Lhufas” in Portuguese, and “Hakken-Kraks’” from “Oh, the Places You’ll Go!” became “Scracchi Stridenti” in Italian.And as for Sam I Am? In Spanish, he’s Juan Ramón, and he’s obsessed with huevos verdes con jamón.The last time an American spacecraft carried astronauts into orbit was in 2011. On Saturday, SpaceX and NASA will test a replacement for the space shuttle.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, John Dorman and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Karen Thorne, a content strategist, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the failure of the U.S.-North Korea talks.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Monday, in French (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here.• Fifty years ago, the book “A Day in the Life of The New York Times” chronicled 24 hours at the Gray Lady. On its anniversary, we look at how the news organization operates today.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Friday. Rejoice! The “bodega cat” that was stolen from a Bronx deli this week has been returned.Weather: It’s still winter. Expect snow, mostly in the morning. The precipitation may pick up in the evening.Alternate-side parking: In effect until March 6 (Ash Wednesday).When Michael Cohen testified in Washington for seven hours on Wednesday, he accused President Trump of lying, cheating, stealing and racism.But the hearing had another main character: New York, the city that gave rise to both Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen.Here are the seven most New York moments from the hearing. Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump fudged finances: Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump misrepresented the value of his properties. At times, he undervalued his assets in New York to avoid paying taxes, Mr. Cohen said. At other times, he inflated them — like when he claimed $4 billion in “brand value” — in hopes of securing a bank loan, Mr. Cohen added. How Mr. Cohen learned so much about Mr. Trump: In 2006, residents in Mr. Trump’s condo near the United Nations threatened to remove the Trump name from the building. Mr. Cohen, a personal injury lawyer living there, squashed the rebellion. Mr. Trump later hired him. Mr. Cohen’s voice: The Long Island-raised Mr. Cohen spoke in a drawl common to anyone who grew up, say, east of Bayside, Queens. It also was a source of pride, and anxiety, for many who watched. AOC’s  questioning: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a freshman lawmaker from the Bronx with a degree in economics, asked Mr. Cohen about Mr. Trump’s finances. The answers laid a bread crumb trail for future investigations, and the entire exchange only took about four minutes. That golf course: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez referred to a 2016 Washington Post story headlined, “Taxpayers built this New York golf course. Trump reaps the rewards.” The course, in the Bronx, has seen a downturn in receipts and rounds played. Lynne Patton’s presence: The most heated exchange was over the appearance of Ms. Patton, who runs the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s New York office. She was invited to the House hearing by a North Carolina Republican to rebut Mr. Cohen’s accusation that Mr. Trump is a racist. A Democratic congresswoman said Ms. Patton was being used as “a prop.” A City Council race that (could have) changed history: Mr. Cohen may have never been entangled with Mr. Trump if he had been successful in local politics. In 2003, he ran for a Council seat on Manhattan’s East Side but lost by 9,540 votes.The takeaway: Local news matters. Much of what unfolded Wednesday was part of a well-known New York saga, elevated on a national stage.A man adds a missing “s” to the name of Frederick Douglass, the abolitionist and longtime New York resident, who is among 77 people featured in the ornate staircase inside the Capitol in Albany.The original carving, with the error, was made sometime in 1890, according to Governor Cuomo’s office. In announcing the correction yesterday, Mr. Cuomo said, “It’s only right that we ensure his memory lives on accurately.”Last June, officials agreed to fix the name of the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge. It was missing a “z.”Governor Amazon Cuomo: Mr. Cuomo spoke with Jeff Bezos, trying to salvage the company’s deal to build a campus in Queens.Riding into the sunset: Central Park’s lone mounted officer is retiring.Goodbye, Park Slope: The neighborhood has changed too much for the Clay Pot.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.Protective gear: The F.D.N.Y. had to get new “spit hoods” that did not look offensive. [New York Post]Arrested: Mayor Shawn Morse of the upstate city of Cohoes was indicted on wire fraud charges. [Albany Times Union]Gunfire: The police opened fire on a fleeing BMW after an attempted traffic stop on the FDR Drive. [The New York Daily News]Wheels: Citi Bike’s electric fleet is expanding, and getting more expensive. [Streetsblog]Saved: A man was rescued from the water in Central Park. [PIX]That’s the number of measles cases in the Orthodox Jewish community in Brooklyn since October, according to the city’s Health Department.Friday:The poet Layli Long Soldier will be in conversation with Claudia Rankine at The New School. 7 p.m. [$20]Comedians will improvise a “Real Housewives” episode at the Peoples Improv Theater. 7 p.m. [$8]At the 53rd Street Library’s pizza and a movie night, teens won’t know what film they’re watching until their votes are counted. 5 p.m. [Free]A screening of shorts by Asian-American filmmakers at the Caveat. 6:30 p.m. [$8]Saturday:Mwenso & the Shakes bring a fusion of blues, funk, R&B and African music to Flushing Town Hall for a dance workshop and performance. 7 p.m. [$16]A day party celebrating queer music icons at C’mon Everybody in Bed-Stuy. 4 p.m. [Free]Sunday:Watch for deer at this park-ranger-led hike at Greenbelt Nature Center on Staten Island. 1 p.m. [Free]Comedians host a live show about #adulting at Union Hall in Park Slope. 5 p.m. [$10]— Iman Stevenson Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Randy Scott Slavin of Murray Hill is, to put it mildly, a drone enthusiast. He remembers flying a drone through the arch at Washington Square Park in 2012, when that sort of thing was legal. (He said police officers would watch in amazement.)Then, there are people who, as Mr. Slavin puts it, have “weird fears” that drones are not only “spying” on people, but are “going to kill somebody.”The ones Mr. Slavin uses, he assured me, will not.The thing that drones do well is “low-altitude cinematography,” he said. “It’s like the space between what a crane can do and what a helicopter can do.”Mr. Slavin created the New York City Drone Film Festival five years ago. It’s part of a two-day event dedicated to all things drones. The film screenings begin tonight at 7:30. Panels and demonstrations begin at 5 p.m. and continue tomorrow. (Here is a schedule of events).Each film in the festival is less than five minutes.Tomorrow, there are bonus films.The first is the 20-minute documentary “Some Kind of Drone” about the Lily drone. Mr. Slavin said the Lily is a well-known cautionary tale in the industry: “It’s the Fyre Festival of drones.”After that will be a 90-minute feature titled, appropriately enough, “The Drone.”What’s that about?“A drone that comes to life and starts killing people,” Mr. Slavin said.It’s Friday — keep your head up.Dear Diary:It was the usual weekend delay at the Grand Street station. When the B train finally arrived, riders packed in, scrambling for something — anything!— to hold on to.A woman wearing glasses lost her balance when the train jerked abruptly. She tipped backward into the back of a man facing away from her.The man turned and hit her in the face. Her glasses soared into the air. He cursed at her before quickly moving away.Everyone in the car was stunned into silence. The woman gathered herself.“Has anyone seen my glasses?” she asked. “I need them to see.”Everyone’s eyes shot around the car. A young woman next to me got down on her knees. I shined my phone flashlight under the seats.Someone yelled out that they’d found the glasses.“You’re bleeding,” someone else said to the woman.We all mobilized again. An older man fished a tissue out of his pocket. A younger man turned his backpack inside out and pulled out two bandages.“Thank you,” the woman said as she accepted the items and our expressions of solace. “It was only a matter of time before that guy exploded. It could’ve happened to anyone, so I’m glad it was at me, rather than somebody else.”When the train got to the next station, she sat down, looking calm rather than shaken.— Shinhee KangNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article incorrectly described Frederick Douglass’s home state. He was a longtime resident of New York, but he was not born there.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Sapna MaheshwariSuper Bowl Sunday is the day when the advertising industry is not only tolerated but celebrated. And as in years past, brands paid millions of dollars this year for the opportunity to make consumers laugh, cry and reach for their wallets.The advertisers for Super Bowl LIII seemed determined to steer clear of controversy for a second year after politically tinged spots stole the show in 2017.Instead, they offered commercials that championed women, looked to the future and also inspired nostalgia for the ’90s — accompanied, of course, by a parade of celebrities. Cameos included Serena Williams, Jason Bateman, Cardi B and the Backstreet Boys. There was a surprise mash-up between Bud Light and HBO’s “Game of Thrones,” and Burger King relied on vintage footage of Andy Warhol eating a Whopper for its Super Bowl moment.[Follow along with live updates and analysis from Mercedes-Benz Stadium.]“It seems like there’s an awful lot of humor and light appeals, and that for advertisers it’s somewhat of a play-it-safe year,” said Charles R. Taylor, a professor of marketing at the Villanova University School of Business. “We’re not hearing about anything crossing over in politics.”Wendy Clark, the chief executive of the agency DDB Worldwide, said that it was hard for ads to break through during a quiet game, describing the array as something of a “mishmash.”“I kind of look at some of these and think, some of them are just fine ads — I’m just not sure they’re Super Bowl ads,” Ms. Clark said. “People have perhaps forgotten that yes, you’ve got all these eyes and attention, but there is still competition for people being around you and talking to you and food and drink and the game itself.”The talk about trouble for the TV business has never extended to the Super Bowl, where the average cost of a 30-second spot climbed to a cool $5.2 million last year, according to Kantar Media. It is roughly the same this year. That figure rose by 96 percent in the previous decade, while the average rate for other prime-time ads fell by 12 percent, according to the firm. More than 100 million people were expected to watch the CBS telecast.Bud Light ran two spots that got people talking, both featuring its medieval cast of characters.One began with a joust and allowed “Game of Thrones” characters, including a dragon, to hijack the spot, ultimately advertising both Bud Light and the final season of the much-loved HBO show, which starts on April 14. (Ultimately, fans might be thirstier for the show than the beer.) The spot tapped into the same show enthusiasm that Doritos harnessed last year with an ad that featured Morgan Freeman and Peter Dinklage.“If you look at Bud Light, they’ve been in this medieval world, so it’s smart on their part to try to get at the love of ‘Game of Thrones,’” said Liz Taylor, chief creative officer of the agency FCB’s Chicago office. But it’s an uncommon type of collaboration, she said.Ms. Clark of DDB said, “No one saw that coming as a ‘Game of Thrones’ ad, and I thought it was a fantastic and very brave pair-up.”The agency Droga5, which collaborated with Bud Light’s agency, Wieden+Kennedy, said that more than 25 people from the show’s crew worked on the ad. That included David Nutter, who has directed several of notable “Game of Thrones” episodes. The agencies sought to mimic the unexpected twists from the show by killing off the Bud Knight.Chris Spadaccini, HBO’s head of marketing, said the network was looking for a “partner that would be willing to make a bold sacrifice ‘for the throne.’”Earlier, Bud Light ran a commercial that showed its characters receiving a shipment of corn syrup, supposedly meant for either Miller Lite or Coors Light. MillerCoors quickly responded, saying that none of its products contain “any high fructose corn syrup” and that a number of Anheuser-Busch items do. The National Corn Growers Association also expressed disappointment with the company on Twitter.“It was interesting they went for a broad brand play there and actually attacked their competitors,” said Jon Haber, co-founder of the ad agency Giant Spoon. “They did it in a funny and cute way.” The aim seemed to be to “put that little seed of doubt in there” for consumers in stores, who are deciding between the three brands, he said.“Pepsi and Coke have done it to each other for years,” Mr. Haber said of the jab. “It’s a tried-and-true tradition.”TurboTax ran a spot featuring a disconcerting character named “RoboChild,” who was told that he could not work at the company when he grew up. Walmart showed an array of futuristic cars from movies and TV shows to promote online ordering and pickup. Ads for Mercedes and Pringles used voice assistants, and robots appeared in an ad for Michelob Ultra.“It’s finally the Super Bowl where the message is more about the future than anything else,” said Mr. Haber of Giant Spoon. “Everyone’s showing their digital transformation capabilities.”Ms. Taylor of FCB said, “That’s kind of the cultural moment that people are tapping into — A.I. and robots and tech.”Derek Rucker, a professor of marketing at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management, said that as advertisers played it safe regarding political messages, they seemed to be relying on technology as a way to safely incorporate modern culture into their commercials.“That theme is very present — I can’t remember a Super Bowl that did it at this level,” he said. “That could go hand-in-hand — where people want to be creative but don’t want to be in any dangerous territory.”Ms. Taylor was left feeling slightly underwhelmed.“Last year, the ads were really fun and took the pulse of the country and brands used their media time to bring a sense of hope and inspiration,” she said. “That’s what I’m missing so far.”Microsoft aired a tear-jerker in the second half, with a spot that showcased a group of children with physical limitations talking about how they love gaming, and are able to play video games through Xbox adaptive controllers. “No matter how your body is, or how fast you are, you can play,” one of the boys said in an online version of the spot.Tech giants loomed large. That includes Amazon, which had a Super Bowl ad for the fourth time.Amazon showed a trailer for a new show called “Hanna” on its Prime streaming service and another ad for its Alexa devices. The latter included celebrities like Harrison Ford, Forest Whitaker and the “Broad City” stars Ilana Glazer and Abbi Jacobson.Amazon, which ran its first Super Bowl ad in 2016, has become a big presence as its overall marketing spending has increased. Last year, the company was one of the game’s five biggest advertisers for the first time, according to Kantar, on a list that included Anheuser-Busch, Fiat Chrysler, Toyota and Procter & Gamble.Last year, Amazon raised its ad spending in the United States by about 73 percent, Kantar said, outspending companies like General Motors, Verizon and L’Oréal.“Their presence makes a lot of sense to me,” Professor Rucker said. “Their target is probably a massive portion of everyone watching.”On a somewhat related note, The Washington Post made a last-minute decision to run a spot — a first for the newspaper. The ad, which ran in the fourth quarter and was narrated by Tom Hanks, highlighted “reporters’ work and the importance of press freedom,” Fred Ryan, the newspaper’s publisher, said in a statement.It showed images of journalists from several news organizations, including CNN and Fox News, and referred to the death of Jamal Khashoggi, the Saudi dissident journalist who wrote for the newspaper before he was killed in October. It closed with the paper’s motto, “Democracy Dies in Darkness.” The Post is owned by Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive.Did you love “I Know What You Did Last Summer”? How about the Backstreet Boys? “Sex and the City”?Who knew a night of football could bring all of that back!The Backstreet Boys — whose oldest member is only a few years away from 50 — joined Chance the Rapper for a Doritos commercial that remixed the group’s song “I Want It That Way.” Sarah Jessica Parker took a turn as the cocktail-loving Carrie Bradshaw in an ad for Stella Artois, which also featured Jeff Bridges as the Dude from “The Big Lebowski.” Sarah Michelle Gellar appeared in a spot that reprised “I Know What You Did Last Summer” to sell Olay skin cream. And the actress Christina Applegate, known for the sitcom “Married With Children,” appeared in an ad for M&Ms.“There’s a lot of cross-generational appeal with the Backstreet Boys,” said Jennifer Saenz, chief marketing officer of Frito-Lay North America, which is owned by PepsiCo. “They were relevant a decade ago and still relevant today.”In the Super Bowl host city, Pepsi erected billboards and put out recycling bins while “trying to paint Atlanta blue,” according to Greg Lyons, chief marketing officer of Pepsi’s North American beverage unit. The city is home to Coca-Cola, but Pepsi’s signage sought to remind people that its brand was the “official soft drink of Super Bowl LIII.”Bumble, the dating app that requires women to message potential matches first, ran its first Super Bowl ad, which featured the tennis star Serena Williams urging women to “make the first move” in all areas of their lives. Toyota’s commercial chronicled the unexpected path of a football player named Antoinette Harris, and compared her journey to one of its vehicles, which it said “will shatter perceptions.”“The female empowerment theme this year is very real,” Professor Taylor said. “That doesn’t mean it’s overwhelming — there’s still more ads with male lead characters and still more male celebrities — but I think it’s narrowed a little bit.”“I haven’t seen any ads that objectify women, which is awesome,” said Margaret Johnson, chief creative officer of the agency Goodby Silverstein & Partners.“Over all, the gap is narrowing,” she said. “We’re moving in the right direction.”Advertisers largely seemed to be avoiding anything remotely controversial — perhaps seeking to learn from years past.Last year, Ram trucks faced criticism  after it used a sermon by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as the voice-over for its Super Bowl ad. The timing didn’t help, considering one story line last season was about N.F.L. players who sat or knelt during the national anthem to draw attention to racial oppression and police brutality against black Americans.Two years ago, after the presidential election, Airbnb and 84 Lumber ran spots that were viewed as responses to President Trump’s stance on immigration.This year, advertisers sought to tie themselves to social causes. Budweiser, for example, highlighted its efforts in renewable energy in a spot that featured a charming dog, the beverage company’s Clydesdales and the Bob Dylan song “Blowin’ in the Wind.” And Verizon, for a second year, put a spotlight on emergency workers.One brand appeared to seek attention by creating an ad it claimed was too racy for CBS — a tried-and-true strategy for many previous advertisers. Devour, a maker of frozen meals, riffed on the concept of “food porn” for its spot, with a girlfriend discussing her boyfriend’s addiction to tantalizing footage of frozen food. Ultimately, Devour released a more saucy version of its ad online and one that was deemed appropriate for television.Still, the family-approved version may lead to some questions from the children in the room.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Katie RogersWASHINGTON — As he prepared to finally emerge from the White House on Monday morning, after days of complaining that he had been cooped up there waiting for Democrats to negotiate with him to end a 24-day government shutdown, President Trump momentarily seemed to forget where he was headed.“Getting ready to address the Farm Convention today in Nashville, Tennessee,” the president said in a Twitter message. “See you in a little while.”Farmers in Tennessee would have to wait: Mr. Trump was actually scheduled to visit an agricultural conference in Louisiana on Monday. And when he did, he was on the ground for little more than two hours before flying back to the White House.Mr. Trump has made it a repeated point of pride that he has been confined to the capital in recent weeks while waiting for his Democratic adversaries to give in and agree to spending $5.8 billion on his border wall, but he has actually been stuck in what his allies say is an uncomfortable limbo. It has made him wax wistfully about being unable to visit Mar-a-Lago, his gilded bunker by the sea where if members disagree with him on anything — from the firmness of the house meatloaf recipe to his isolationist approach to foreign allies — they tend to keep those opinions to themselves.So, unable to resume his weekend routine of soliciting friendly advice from club members on the patio or spending sunny mornings at his nearby golf club, Mr. Trump has tried to make the snowy confines of Washington feel more like his Palm Beach cocoon.The results are mixed.Since the shutdown began Dec. 22, Mr. Trump has left the White House fewer than 10 times. He has shared his shut-in routine with America: When not at work in the Oval Office, he has frittered away the hours by watching the multiple flat-screen TVs installed in the White House residence, gazing out of secured windows, tweeting at his enemies and phoning his friends.“Wish I could share with everyone the beauty and majesty of being in the White House and looking outside at the snow filled lawns and Rose Garden,” Mr. Trump tweeted on Sunday as the chaos of an embittered capital was all but silenced by snow. Melania Trump, the first lady, then shared a photo of the wintry wonderland to give Americans a visual.But the flurry of tweets Mr. Trump sent shortly afterward attacking assorted perceived foes, including Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, his first announced Democratic opponent in 2020, and the billionaire Jeff Bezos, seemed to show that not even the most dedicated of homebody presidents is immune from a bout of cabin fever.“I think it was harmful to him psychologically that he didn’t make it down here over the holidays,” Laurence Leamer, a longtime Palm Beach resident who has known Mr. Trump since the 1990s and has written a book on Mar-a-Lago, wrote in an email. “Despite his impulsive exterior, he’s a man of routine, and that’s what Mar-a-Lago is all about.”Both Mr. Trump and White House officials have said that he will remain in Washington for as long as the shutdown persists, though allies expect him to give in and make an appearance in Palm Beach over the long Martin Luther King Jr. Day weekend.In a statement, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Mr. Trump’s press secretary, said the president was at work whether he was at the White House, one of his “personal properties” or riding on Air Force One.“The president is always working,” Ms. Sanders said. “During the time leading up to the shutdown and since, he has been almost entirely at the White House working to find solutions to deal with the humanitarian and national security crisis at our southern border.”Democrats, Ms. Sanders added, “have spent their time at beach resorts, watching Broadway shows and attending cocktail receptions with lobbyists.”Ms. Sanders was referring to a trip organized by the political arm of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, which flew three dozen or so House members to San Juan for two days of receptions and meetings on the damage to the island from Hurricane Maria as well as a performance of “Hamilton” with its creator, Lin-Manuel Miranda. Although Republicans said Speaker Nancy Pelosi was one of those attending, a spokesman said she, like the president, stayed in Washington for the weekend.A person familiar with the president’s thinking who spoke on the condition of anonymity described Mr. Trump as both a “workaholic” and a “homebody.” The president, that person said, has been sensitive to the criticism that he is vacationing when he visits his assorted properties on the weekends, when in fact that has been his preferred mode of weekending for decades.Stuck in Washington over the weekend, Mr. Trump called into the Fox News personality Jeanine Pirro’s TV show to remind Americans that he was still in work mode.In a lengthy phone call with Ms. Pirro on Saturday evening, the president angrily defended his demand for $5 billion in border wall funding and attacked news reports that the F.B.I. has conducted an investigation into whether he has worked on behalf of Russia.And the president stated once again that he relished the idea of stewing at home alone.“I like the symbol of me being here and them being at some play in a nice location having a good time,” Mr. Trump said, joining in the bashing of the Puerto Rico trip.The last time Mr. Trump visited Puerto Rico, he was panned for throwing paper towels into a crowd.“I haven’t actually left the White House in months,” Mr. Trump said to Ms. Pirro before acknowledging that he had in fact left. “I’ve been here virtually every night, I guess every night other than one day I flew to Iraq and then to Germany to see our troops.”Mr. Trump has long enjoyed puttering around his homes, said Timothy O’Brien, the author of the 2005 book “TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald.” The president does not enjoy extensive travel, or sleeping or eating under a roof that is not his own, and he has long imported friends and associates to visit him for dinner.“Before he was president,” Mr. O’Brien wrote in an email, “he favored the familiar because it allowed an antisocial teetotaler to mingle selectively with other people — on his own terms and under his control — before retreating back inside to do what he enjoys spending most of his time doing: sitting in front of a TV with a cheeseburger watching sports.”Mr. Leamer, the author, said that Mr. Trump is “as isolated as any public figure could conceivably be,” and added that Mr. Trump’s gregarious exterior masked the habits of a loner.""He has walled himself off from the rest of the world,” Mr. Leamer said. “He loves to go out and receive the accolades of his adoring supporters, but as soon as the applause dies out, he’s back into his own private world.”At the conference in New Orleans on Monday, Mr. Trump received a standing ovation — the same reception he gets whenever supporters spot him at Mar-a-Lago. He praised the New Orleans Saints and bragged that an ally had placed about 100 phone calls to make sure that he would actually turn up.Then he returned to Washington for another at-home event — welcoming members of the Clemson University football team to the White House to celebrate their national championship last year.The president greeted reporters in the White House dining room, where he proudly displayed a table piled high with burgers from McDonald’s, Wendy’s, and Burger King. Another table in back was covered with Domino’s pizza and fries.Ms. Sanders had an explanation for the menu, putting it in political terms. “Because the Democrats refuse to negotiate on border security, much of the residence staff at the White House is furloughed — so the president is personally paying for the event to be catered with some of everyone’s favorite fast foods.”Mr. Trump himself called it “great American food.” But maybe it was really something else — comfort food for a president who feels stuck at home.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump plans to nominate David Malpass, the under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs, to head the World Bank, according to administration officials.He’s likely to land the gig. “The nomination must be ratified by the bank’s board,” writes Peter Baker of the NYT, “but by tradition, the United States, the largest shareholder, has long named its president.” Mr. Trump is expected to announce his pick tomorrow.And he could shake things up. “Like Mr. Trump, he has questioned the scope and mission of international institutions such as the World Bank, saying they have grown ‘more intrusive’ and need to be refocused,” Mr. Baker writes. “The larger trend toward multilateralism, he has said, ‘has gone substantially too far.’”That makes him a contentious choice. “The prospect of such a steadfast critic of multilateral lenders leading the World Bank has already sparked concern and dismay within the institution and among international and former U.S. officials who deal with global finance and development,” write James Politi and Sam Fleming of the FT.There were less controversial options. Indra K. Nooyi, the former C.E.O. of PepsiCo; Ray Washburne, the president of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation; and Heidi Cruz, a Goldman Sachs executive and the wife of Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, were all reportedly considered.After the government shutdown postponed his annual address to Congress, President Trump will finally deliver the speech tonight. (His theme? “Choosing Greatness.”) Here’s what’s coming up:A trade plea. He will call on Congress to back the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Free Trade Agreement, meant to replace Nafta. A draft of the speech described Americans as suffering “decades of flawed trade deals.”Plus one for infrastructure. He’s also expected to urge lawmakers to find budget space for repairing and upgrading roads, bridges and more. But the WSJ reports that Mr. Trump feels iffy about some elements of his previous proposals, including private-public partnerships.Border wall demands. Mr. Trump still plans to request money to pay for a wall between the U.S. and Mexico, though he lost support during the shutdown. He is still considering declaring a national emergency to get it, despite an expected challenge from Democrats and growing opposition among Republican senators.And the rebuttal. Democrats’ response will come from Stacey Abrams, a rising star who narrowly lost last year’s race for Georgia’s governorship. (Many in the party want her to run for Senate next year; she may do so.)For decades, Bill Gross was a titan of finance. He turned the investment firm Pimco into a $2 trillion giant. But by the time he announced his retirement yesterday from Janus Henderson Investments — the firm he joined in 2014 after a dispute with Pimco — he was at a low point.The numbers prove it. “Pimco Total Return, the fund he once ruled, returned 2.54 percent, annualized, in the three years through Friday, trouncing the paltry 0.95 percent returned by his new fund, Janus Henderson Global Unconstrained,” Jeff Sommer of the NYT writes. His Janus fund shrank from a peak of $2.2 billion to under $1 billion last year. Mr. Gross was an icon of the bond world. He drew investors by combining mathematical models and broad economic analyses. He advised the Treasury Department during the 2008 financial crisis and gained a reputation as a quirky oracle of the financial world.But he made one fatal error. Robin Wigglesworth of the FT asks whether Mr. Gross was more lucky than brilliant and how much of his success was owed to former colleagues. He picks brilliance, but adds, “Even investing stars need a supporting cast to excel, and forgetting this can be hazardous.”Need evidence that U.S. law enforcement is taking potential thefts of American technology seriously? Look no further than a report by Bloomberg Businessweek about an F.B.I. sting operation targeting Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant.How it went down: An American start-up, Akahn, claims to have developed glass that can make smartphone screens nearly indestructible, and has shopped it around smartphone makers. But Huawei took suspicious liberties when testing a sample. The F.B.I. got involved, ultimately organizing a sting on Huawei executives in Las Vegas last month.Businessweek got a ringside seat. Erik Schatzker, the article’s author, writes that he watched the sting operation from 100 feet away, “in front of a gelato stand.”What now? Unclear. “It’s possible that the government will conclude there aren’t grounds for an indictment,” Mr. Schatzker writes. “If that’s so, it raises a question about the broader U.S. crackdown on Huawei: Is it based on hard evidence of wrongdoing or driven by a desperation to catch the Chinese company doing something — anything — bad?” But an indictment “would show just how far and wide Huawei is willing to go to steal American trade secrets.”More Huawei news: Some telecom companies are standing by the company despite all the scrutiny. And Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany set out conditions that Huawei must meet to build 5G networks in her country.Automation is changing work, flushing people without a college degree out of productive industries like manufacturing and high-tech services and into low-wage dead-end jobs, Eduardo Porter of the NYT writes:• “There is a small island of highly educated professionals making good wages at corporations like Intel or Boeing, which reap hundreds of thousands of dollars in profit per employee.”• But “the employment footprint of highly productive industries, like finance, manufacturing, information services and wholesale trade, has shrunk over the last 30 years.”• “That island sits in the middle of a sea of less educated workers who are stuck at businesses like hotels, restaurants and nursing homes that generate much smaller profits per employee and stay viable primarily by keeping wages low.”• “Recent research has concluded that robots are reducing the demand for workers and weighing down wages, which have been rising more slowly than the productivity of workers.”Democrats in New York State’s Senate are fighting Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s $3 billion plan to bring Amazon offices to Queens — and may have the power to halt it altogether.What happened: The Senate named Senator Michael Gianaris, who has called the incentives promised to Amazon “offensive,” to the little-known Public Authorities Control Board.Why that matters: The board, as Mr. Cuomo has noted, will vote on Amazon’s so-called HQ2 plan, and could veto it. (It helped block Michael Bloomberg’s plan to build a stadium in Manhattan’s West Side 14 years ago.)What’s next: The governor could reject Mr. Gianaris’s nomination, but it would lead to a political fight. Mr. Cuomo’s office said that the nomination put the self-interest of a flip-flopping opponent of Amazon “above the state’s economic growth.” Mr. Gianaris said he wouldn’t use the position to seek concessions from Amazon: “I’m not looking to negotiate a better deal.”More Jeff Bezos news: Washington Post employees aren’t happy that their company’s owner paid over $10 million for a Super Bowl ad.The Federal Reserve’s chairman spent the evening of his 66th birthday dining at the White House with President Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.On the agenda: “Recent economic developments and the outlook for growth, employment and inflation,” according to a Federal Reserve statement. “He did not discuss his expectations for monetary policy, except to stress that the path of policy will depend entirely on incoming economic information and what that means for the outlook.”And on the menu? Steak, an anonymous source told the WSJ.Michael O’Leary will become the C.E.O. of Ryanair’s parent company, but will relinquish that role at the airline.Deals• The workplace messaging company Slack filed confidentially to go public. It’s skipping the traditional I.P.O. process in the same way Spotify did, by pursuing a direct listing. (NYT)• Vivendi is reportedly considering selling a stake in Universal Music Group, valuing the business at $25 billion. (Bloomberg)• Papa John’s received a $200 million investment from Starboard Value, the activist hedge fund, and named the investment firm’s chief, Jeffrey Smith, as its chairman. (WSJ)• An investor group led by Hellman & Friedman agreed to buy Ultimate Software Group, an H.R. specialist, for about $11 billion. (WSJ)• Gannett rejected a $1.3 billion hostile takeover bid by the hedge-fund backed publisher MNG Enterprises. (NYT)• The E.U.’s expected rejection of a merger of Siemens’s and Alstom’s rail businesses raises questions about its antitrust policies. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• Federal prosecutors ordered the Trump inaugural committee to hand over documents about its donors and finances. (NYT)• President Trump plans to name a former oil lobbyist, David Bernhardt, as interior secretary. (NYT)• “Soak the rich” tax proposals by Democratic lawmakers have drawn condemnation from colleagues in Washington — but polls show voters support them. (Politico)• Howard Schultz will take three to four months to decide whether to run for president as an independent, and promised not to inadvertently help re-elect Mr. Trump. (Politico)• A case that Congress and Mr. Trump should increase spending to prevent an economic slowdown. (NYT Op-Ed)Trade• Some trade hard-liners fear that President Trump is being played by China during current negotiations. If the talks fail, the U.N. warns that subsequent tariff increases could be “significantly negative” for global trade. (Bloomberg, BBC)• How U.S. criminal laws became weapons in the China trade war. (DealBook)• And how China’s online censorship helps stifle trade. (NYT Op-Ed)Tech• Google’s parent, Alphabet, reported that its profit margins shrank in the fourth quarter because of huge investments. Investors wiped 3 percent off its share price in after-hours trading. (FT)• As Facebook turned 15 years old yesterday, Mark Zuckerberg complained that people “overly emphasize the negative” aspects of its impact. (Facebook)• There’s interest in Silicon Valley in a wealth tax. But a major obstacle is how to value private-company assets. (Information)• Instagram’s chief, Adam Mosseri, said that the social network hadn’t done enough to help prevent suicide and self-harm. (Telegraph)• Quadriga CX, a digital money exchange, has about $145 million of its customers’ cryptocurrency locked with passwords its former C.E.O. took with him to the grave. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May will head to Northern Ireland today to rally support for her Brexit deal with the E.U., and promises that she will “find a way” to keep the Irish border open. (Bloomberg)• The issue has left the Bank of England uncertain whether to raise interest rates. (FT)• Britain will ease import regulations to make a no-deal Brexit less problematic for its businesses. (WSJ)• Reportedly, it could even cut import tariffs to zero in that scenario, which some British companies find far from reassuring. (HuffPo)• The Bank of England and European regulators agreed to cooperate on oversight of clearinghouses to keep trades flowing smoothly if no deal is reached. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Australian banks overcharged clients, including clients who had died. (NYT)• A Federal Reserve paper says that negative rates would have accelerated America’s economic recovery. (WSJ)• Russia’s economic growth looks sensational. It may be too good to be true. (Bloomberg Opinion)• Betting on low-volatility stocks is usually safe. Not now. (Bloomberg)• An annual income of $81,000 puts you in India’s 1 percent; in the U.A.E., it’s $894,000. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Campbell RobertsonCLEVELAND — When things overheat, corrode and stop working, that is when they call in Gustavo Costa.It’s a rare expertise, critical to everything from space travel to fracking, and it keeps him in steady demand as a contractor at NASA’s John H. Glenn Research Center. It has also put Dr. Costa, a United States citizen since August, within reach of his ultimate dream: working directly for NASA, a government agency as well-known as Coca-Cola back in his little Brazilian hometown.These days, though, Dr. Costa does not make the five-mile trip from his house to the center. He is at home, already forced to consider jobs elsewhere because NASA has all but shut down for reasons that don’t seem to make much sense. Politics — even overheated, corroded, dysfunctional politics — are outside of Dr. Costa’s expertise.“What are they going to do next?” he asked on a cold morning in his quiet living room. “Do they realize what damage they’re causing?”The Civil Service relies to a large degree on good will. No matter how vital high-skilled federal workers are to the functioning of government, there are usually companies willing to offer them much higher salaries — double or even triple in some cases — on top of the free lunches and stock options. As student debt soars and private sector opportunities multiply, the sheer allure of public service — “the mission,” as NASA researchers often put it — is what keeps a lot of talent in the government.The longest shutdown in the country’s history is eroding that good will, already wearing thin after years of pay freezes, unpredictable budgets, and disdain from even the White House for government workers as swamp creatures or worse.Long after the government reopens, this is the damage that could last. If public service loses its allure, it will make it harder to recruit and hold onto the experienced and talented, those who can design spacecraft but also the people who battle epidemics, predict hurricanes and keep the food supply safe.Steve Reaves, a Federal Emergency Management Agency employee who leads the union for FEMA workers, said he knew firsthand of six experienced people who had left the agency since the shutdown began. Two went to BP, the oil giant.[Read more on how the shutdown is affecting federal workers in every state.]“They’re relying on the pure good intentions of the higher skilled work force,” said Matt Linton, a computer security specialist in California who worked for NASA’s Ames Research Center for 14 years. “And that’s what they drain down the most quickly in these stupid shutdowns.”This is a concern across federal agencies and departments — and even, strikingly, at NASA, the gold standard of government agencies, which seemed in the past to have no trouble attracting anyone with the right stuff.The essential pitch is spelled out in large metal letters at the entrance to the Glenn Research Center, a half-moon-shaped cluster of buildings just northwest of the Cleveland airport. “Research and technology,” it reads, “for the benefit of all.”In normal times, around 3,000 people are at work at Glenn, roughly half of them contractors and the other half civil servants, designing subsonic aeronautics or recreating the atmosphere of Venus. For the past few weeks it has been nearly empty.The workers at Glenn are mostly waiting, drawing down savings, wondering about the state of their untended lab work, reading about Chinese spacecraft landing on the moon and pondering the appeal of the public good when a good chunk of the public seems to have little use for it.“All these people seem to be celebrating our misfortune,” said Michael Kulis, a NASA chemist, who had seen comments on social media portraying federal workers as layabouts enjoying their vacations.Or, as one administration official said in an op-ed shared on Twitter by the president, the workers offered “nothing of external value” and were doing “errands for the sake of errands.”A Navy veteran who is the son of a police officer, Dr. Kulis is committed to staying at NASA, but finds all the scorn for public servants disheartening. “We didn’t get Ph.D.s just to sit around,” he said.As a place to work, NASA still measures up against the corporate world, where venture capital comes and goes, big contracts are lost, funders get impatient. Even SpaceX, Elon Musk’s private space travel company, recently announced it was laying off around 10 percent of its work force. There are pensions and benefits in government work, and there is job stability. Or at least there used to be.Recruiters and others at NASA say that even before the shutdown, the agency has not been the draw on top talent it once was. A graduate student interested in aerospace engineering is as likely to be wearing a SpaceX logo as the old blue-and-red NASA meatball.Interns come to Glenn, learn what they can and leave for Lockheed Martin, Pratt & Whitney or Blue Origin, Jeff Bezos’ spaceflight company.The shutdown is not making recruiting any easier. The already slim stipends for postdoctoral fellows, invited to spend their early careers at NASA, have run dry, leaving them at the mercy of online fund-raising. Jeffrey Severino, a college student from the Bronx who planned to spend his winter break developing algorithms on a paid internship at Glenn, spent it instead delivering takeout.“I still want to work for them,” he said of NASA, though he is now asking what he would do if a shutdown were to happen again.[Read more on federal workers taking odd jobs to make money during the shutdown.]Now, even scientists and engineers several years into their careers at NASA are talking of leaving before things get worse.“People have forgotten what public institutions do and the roles that they play,” said one young NASA research scientist, who dreamed of working at NASA as a child in a family of immigrants, and discovered a new planet before he got out of high school.The scientist, who did not want to give his name out of fear of political reprisal, spent much of the past year preparing for an ambitious climate-related project to start in early January, based on his own technology and involving aircraft, boats and an international team of scientists. The shutdown canceled it. He is now working as a Lyft driver to pay the bills, an arrangement that can keep him afloat for only a few more days.“I don’t want to give up on my country, but if you’re good at science and that’s what you do that’s what’s going to happen,” he said by phone on the way to a job interview. “There are opportunities in Canada that have a lot of great scientific potential.”Governments are among the few places with the money and the latitude for research into fundamental questions without immediate or obvious application.This is the kind of research rarely found on Wall Street or even Silicon Valley, where science is typically tied to the bottom line.“We can’t land humans on Mars, reverse climate change or cure cancer without it,” said Lee Stone, a NASA research scientist and a vice president of the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers, a union that represents thousands in the government and private sector.When asked in an email about the shutdown’s effect on NASA, an agency spokeswoman, Katherine Brown, had an automatic reply that she was in furlough status and unable to respond.Mr. Linton, the California computer security specialist, had considered himself “a lifer” at NASA. “I felt like my job meant something,” he said.But in the fall of 2013, Congress could not agree about a budget amid a Republican crusade to defund the Affordable Care Act. So, to his astonishment, the government shut down for two weeks.He was the only one in his section deemed essential, which meant coming to the center for four hours a day. The rest of the time he was free to think: about the needs of his young family and about the message sent by a government that deems thousands of its employees not valuable enough to do their jobs.A Silicon Valley firm emailed him, asking him to visit in his spare time. He went, learned he could be making double his salary and shortly after the shutdown ended, left government for good.“Before 2013,” Mr. Linton said, “you at least felt like the whole country was behind you when you said, ‘I work for NASA.’ Now it’s absolutely evident that only 40 or 50 percent of the country is behind you and the other 40 or 50 percent think you’re some sort of fiscal drain.”The current shutdown, he said, was proof that he was right to leave when he did.His old colleagues at NASA now see that, too. He has been getting emails from them over the past few weeks, he said. They are asking for references.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byTHE STONEIt is unclear whether the Lyceum charged fees but, given its vast wealth, it probably didn’t need to. Sounds a little like Harvard, doesn’t it?By Simon CritchleyMr. Critchley is a professor of philosophy and an author. ATHENS — Aristotle had slender calves. His eyes were small. And he spoke with a lisp, which — according to Plutarch — was imitated by some. He wore many rings and had a distinctive, rather exotic style of dress — a kind of ancient bling.I tried to piece together a picture of him as I arrived with my partner at the site of the Lyceum, Aristotle’s answer to Plato’s Academy, where I had visited the week before.It is said that Aristotle was a difficult character — somewhat arrogant, thinking he was cleverer than everyone else (quite possibly true) and even criticizing his master of many years, Plato. He was a perhaps a bit of a dyskolos, a grouch, cantankerous, a curmudgeon.Aristotle was not much loved by the Athenians. This might have been because he was a tricky customer or because he was a metic: a resident alien, an ancient green card holder; Greek, but decidedly not an Athenian citizen. Given his close ties to the Macedonian aristocracy, which was extending and tightening its military and political control across Greece, perhaps the Athenians were right to be suspicious of Aristotle.We do know that after having served as Lector in the Academy and being described as its “Mind” by Plato, Aristotle was not chosen as the latter’s successor. The job of scholarch, or head of the school, went to Speusippus, Plato’s nephew. Aristotle left Athens shortly after Plato’s death and stayed away for around 12 years. Was he angry or disappointed not to have been chosen as head of the Academy? Famously, Aristotle was asked by Philip II of Macedon to be the tutor of his 13-year-old son, Alexander. Aristotle set up school in the Macedonian fortress of Mieza, and the young prince was taught together with his companions, who probably numbered around 30 students. A big class. This was a closed school, a boarding school of sorts. A sense of the seriousness with which Aristotle performed his duties can be gleaned from the fact that he composed two treatises in honor of Alexander, “On Kingship” and “On Colonies,"" as guidebooks for the prince, as well as editing a copy of Homer’s “Iliad” specifically for Alexander’s use — the so-called “casket copy” (presumably because it was kept in a casket).Very little is known about Aristotle’s stay in Macedonia, but it is thought that he was there for quite some time, possibly seven years, and became very friendly with powerful members of Philip’s court. In 336 B.C.E., Philip was assassinated (in a theater, of all places), and Alexander was declared king at the age of 20. Sensing the instability of political transition, the mighty city of Thebes rebelled against the new Macedonian king. In order to set an example, Alexander besieged and then wholly incinerated the city, wiping it from the map. Its citizens were either killed or sold into slavery.Athens didn’t make the same mistake as Thebes and meekly submitted to the Macedonian pike. It is in this context that Aristotle returned to the city at around age 50. And he came back big time. Because of his metic status, Aristotle was not allowed to buy property. So — as one does — he rented. He took over a gymnasium site sacred to Apollo Lyceus (the wolf-god) and transformed it into the most powerful and well-endowed school in the world.Two things hit you when you visit the site of the Lyceum and look at its architectural plans. First, it is a direct copy of Plato’s Academy. And second, it is much, much bigger. The relation between the Academy and the Lyceum is a little like that between a twee medieval Cambridge College and the monumental architecture of the University of Chicago.The reason Aristotle was able to do this was simple: money. If Plato was rich, then Aristotle was wealthier than Croesus, right up there with the Jeff Bezos-es of his day. He received the sum of 800 talents from his presumably grateful former student, Alexander, which was an enormous amount of money. (Consider that the Plato’s Academy cost about 25-30 talents.)Expressing ancient money values in modern terms presents a perennial puzzle for historians of economics, so I called on my colleague, the economist Duncan Foley, for help. He very roughly calculated that the annual gross domestic product of classical Athens was about 4,400 talents. If that is right, then 800 talents is a vast figure, 32 times the expenditure on the Academy. Foley is somewhat skeptical of the figure, though. Ancient sources for numerical data (like the size of armies) are notoriously inaccurate, so perhaps a excited copyist simply added a zero.Whatever the truth of the matter, Aristotle’s endowment allowed him to build a huge research and teaching facility and amass the largest and most important library in the world. During the time of Theophrastus, Aristotle’s successor as scholarch and clearly a very effective college president, there were as many as 2,000 pupils at the Lyceum, some of them sleeping in dormitories. The Lyceum was clearly the place to be, the educational destination of choice for the elites. It leads one to ponder the awkward proximity between philosophy and political power. It is unclear whether the school charged fees but, given its vast wealth, it probably didn’t need to. It sounds a little like Harvard, doesn’t it?The Lyceum was clearly the intellectual projection of Macedonian political and military hegemony. In 323 B.C.E., when news of Alexander the Great’s death in Babylon at the age of 32 reached Athens, simmering anti-Macedonian sentiment spilled over, and the popular Athenian leader Demosthenes was recalled. Aristotle left the city for the last time, in fear of his life, after a little more than a decade in charge of the Lyceum. Seeing himself justly or unjustly in the mirror of Socrates and fearing charges of impiety, Aristotle reportedly said, “I will not allow the Athenians to sin twice against philosophy.” Aristotle withdrew to his late mother’s estate at Chalcis on the island of Euboea and died there shortly after of an unspecified illness, at age 63.Looking now at the beautifully maintained site of the Lyceum, which is comparatively new by Athenian standards (as excavations only began in 1996, and it was opened to the public in 2014), we are only now beginning to form a proper picture of the plan, architecture and function of the Lyceum. A book detailing our knowledge of Aristotle’s school, by the archaeologist Efi Lygouri-Tolia and our constant companion, Konstantinos Sp. Staikos, is currently being prepared for publication. But when I was wandering around the ruins, it was something else that caught my eye and tickled my fancy: the garden. In the northeast corner of the Lyceum, there was a garden, which possibly led to the peripatos, or shaded walk from which the promenading Peripatetic school derived its name. Indeed, there were gardens in all the earlier philosophical schools, in the schools of Miletus on the present-day Turkish coast, and allegedly in the Pythagorean schools in southern Italy. Plato’s Academy also had a garden. And later, the school of Epicurus was simply called “The Garden.” Theophrastus, a keen botanist like Aristotle who did so much to organize the library and build up its scientific side (with maps, globes, specimens and such like), eventually retired to his garden, which was close by.What was the garden for? Was it a space for leisure, strolling and quiet dialectical chitchat? Was it a mini-laboratory for botanical observation and experimentation? Or was it — and I find this the most intriguing possibility — an image of paradise? The ancient Greek word paradeisos appears to be borrowed etymologically from Persian, and it is said that Darius the Great had a “paradise garden,"" with the kinds of flora and fauna with which we are familiar from the elaborate design of carpets and rugs. A Persian carpet is like a memory theater of paradise. It is possible that Milesian workers and thinkers had significant contact with the Persian courts at Susa and Persepolis. Maybe the whole ancient Greek philosophical fascination with gardens is a Persian borrowing, and an echo of the influence of their expansive empire. But who knows?I am hardly a gardener. In fact, I have always been remarkably insensitive to the pleasures that many green-fingered folk find in their backyards. Voltaire’s advice in “Candide” that “Il faut cultiver notre jardin” (”It is necessary to look after our garden”) always struck me as ironic, flippant and defeatist. But now I am not so sure. Perhaps there is a much closer relation between gardens and philosophical thought than we might at first imagine. At the end of the “Nicomachean Ethics,” Aristotle sees the promise of philosophy as the cultivation of the contemplative life, the bios theoretikos that would be the equal to the life of the gods. What better place for this than a garden? Might not botany be the royal road to paradise, an activity at once empirical and deeply poetic?I visited the Lyceum with my partner, who has keener eyes than I. Together we identified thyme, lavender, abundant wildflowers, gigantic rosemary bushes, olive trees, cypress and possibly oregano. A carpet of moss with varying shades of green was framed by the sandy yellow footings of the ruins. The whole site suddenly seemed to be a garden, and one could feel the proximity to the peak of Mount Lycabettus and outward to the mountains that girdle Athens and the open blue sky.Very low rope barriers separated off areas that visitors were not meant to visit. I looked around for a guard, saw no one, and stepped onto the green moss and made my way quietly to the location of Aristotle’s library. On my hands and knees, I saw the ground was littered with tiny delicate snail shells, no bigger than a fingernails, scattered like empty scholars’ backpacks. My partner gave me one, and I put it in my pocket. I had it on my desk right in front of me as I was writing this. Inadvertently, I crushed it to pieces under the weight of one of Mr. Staikos’s huge tomes on the history of libraries. There’s probably a moral in this, but it escapes me.Simon Critchley is a professor of philosophy at the New School for Social Research and the author of several books, including “What We Think About When We Think About Soccer,” and the forthcoming “Tragedy, the Greeks, and Us.” He is the moderator of The Stone.Now in print: “Modern Ethics in 77 Arguments,” and “The Stone Reader: Modern Philosophy in 133 Arguments,” with essays from the series, edited by Peter Catapano and Simon Critchley, published by Liveright Books.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A new research paper tracked the political donations of thousands of C.E.O.s from 2000 through 2017. The results, Andrew writes in his latest column, reveal what top business leaders really think about politics.They’re usually Republican. Nearly 58 percent of C.E.O.s showed a preference for the G.O.P., with just 18 percent designated as Democrats. (For executives to be counted as either, two thirds of their donations had to go to candidates affiliated with one party.)About a quarter were considered neutral. The report doesn’t disclose who was in each category, but its authors told Andrew that Tim Cook of Apple was neutral, having donated to both Hillary Clinton and Paul Ryan over the years.The disparity was narrower in some sectors. Tech and internet companies had somewhat more Democratic-leaning C.E.O.s. And female leaders were nearly evenly split between the G.O.P., Democrats and neutral territory.But the Republicans are quieter. The study found that there was a statistically significant association between a company having a Republican C.E.O. and less disclosure of political contributions.Why it matters: “The opinions held by executives have always resonated beyond their own industries, but their importance is more pronounced today,” Andrew writes. “Mr. Trump, for example, has not hesitated to equate economic policy with foreign policy. It is, then, instructive to understand the political views of our business leaders.”The U.S. and China will embark on another round of high-level trade talks in a final attempt to hash out an agreement, according to the WSJ.• “U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin plan to fly to Beijing next week to meet with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He, Trump administration officials said.”• “The following week, a Chinese delegation led by Mr. Liu is expected to continue talks in Washington.”There are conflicting views on how far they’ve got: America seems upbeat. President Trump yesterday said that talks were “going very well,” and Myron Brilliant, executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said that “we’re in the endgame.” But China may be wary. “Some U.S. negotiators are concerned that China is pushing back against American demands in trade talks,” Bloomberg reports, citing unnamed sources. It may walk back some promises because they didn’t prompt assurances about American concessions.A deal could be ready by the end of April if the next talks go well, the WSJ estimates, about a month later than previously expected.Meanwhile, in Europe:  President Xi Jinping’s trip to Italy and France this week is drawing attention to Europe’s conflicted views on China.After years of criticism, Facebook said it would no longer permit advertisers in key categories to show their messages only to people of a certain race, gender or age group, Noam Scheiber and Mike Isaac of the NYT report.• Anyone advertising housing, jobs or credit would no longer have the option of explicitly aiming ads on the basis of those characteristics.• The new rules also cover advertising on Instagram and Messenger, which Facebook owns.• Facebook said it planned to carry out the changes by the end of the year.• The changes are part of a settlement with groups that have sued Facebook over these practices in recent years.The shift will annoy advertisers. Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s C.O.O., told the NYT that the changes could make advertising on Facebook less efficient for some customers, but that it was “a cost well worth bearing.”And it has limits. “I don’t think it solves the problem of the potential for biased serving of ads,” Pauline Kim, a professor of employment law at Washington University in St. Louis, told the NYT. She explained that Facebook’s algorithms could show any ad to a particular audience if that audience were determined to be likelier to click on it.More Facebook news: Representative David Cicilline, the head of the House antitrust subcommittee, explains why he is calling on the F.T.C. to investigate the company. And are we asking it the wrong questions in the wake of the Christchurch shooting?In the wake of two fatal crashes involving Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane, a new focus for investigations is how the F.A.A. certified the jet as safe, David Gelles and Tom Kaplan of the NYT report.• “The 737 Max was one of the first commercial jets approved under new rules, which delegated more authority to Boeing than had been the case when most previous planes were certified.”• “Top F.A.A. officials, who are briefed on significant safety issues, were not aware” of an automated piloting system suspected in the crashes, Mr. Gelles and Mr. Kaplan report, citing unnamed sources.• “The software did not elicit what are known as special conditions, usually applied to a novel feature that requires additional regulations before it can be certified as safe.” But other features, like non-rechargeable lithium batteries, received that designation.• Skepticism about the F.A.A.’s approval process existed before the crashes. “In 2012, an investigation by the Transportation Department’s Office of Inspector General found that F.A.A. managers had not always been supportive of efforts by agency employees to ‘hold Boeing accountable.’ ”• “The United States transportation secretary, Elaine L. Chao, on Tuesday called for her agency’s internal watchdog to open an inquiry into the process.”More aviation news: President Trump nominated Stephen Dickson, a former Delta Air Lines executive, to lead the F.A.A. And an off-duty pilot reportedly helped save a Lion Air 737 Max 8 flight in software-driven trouble just one day before the same jet crashed.The tech giant introduced a service yesterday that allows people to play high-definition games instantly over the internet. It’s hoping to lead a revolution in the $135 billion industry.Think of it as Netflix for video games. “The new service, called Stadia, will work for anyone with a fast internet connection and a computer, phone or tablet,” Daisuke Wakabayashi and Brian Chen of the NYT write. “Users pay a subscription to access a library of games that they can immediately play, as opposed to the traditional model of paying for a disc or waiting to download a game.”This isn’t the only game-streaming option. Sony offers one called PlayStation Now, and Microsoft plans to test something similar this year. The idea hasn’t yet hit the mainstream because streaming games is more technically demanding than streaming movies — and therefore prone to glitches.Plenty of unanswered questions hang over the announcement. What games will be available? How much will the service cost? And more fundamentally, what is Google’s business model? None of that is clear.But Google has not-so-secret weapons. “Using the global network of data centers that run its internet empire, it is set to unleash enough raw computing power to blow away the industry’s current way of doing things,” the FT writes, and it has “YouTube as a shop window.” Shares in Sony and Nintendo tumbled after the announcement.More Google news: In Europe, the company is changing how it displays some search results, and is giving Android users a choice of web browser to stave off complaints — and potential fines — from antitrust regulators.Just after midnight Eastern Time, Walt Disney closed its $71.3 billion takeover of 21st Century Fox. It has become, Brooks Barnes of the NYT writes, “an entertainment colossus the size of which the world has never seen.”Disney now owns an enviable array of assets. It already runs blockbuster properties like Marvel, Lucasfilm and ESPN, and a huge global theme-park operation. But buying most of Rupert Murdoch’s media empire brings:• The 20th Century Fox movie and TV studios, home to “X-Men” and “The Simpsons”• The Nat Geo and FX cable channels• Most of the Hulu streaming service• Star, the fast-growing Indian video providerThe consequences could be huge. Smaller studios may have to merge. Theater owners could lose out on box-office splits. And Disney’s efforts to dominate streaming could pose big challenges to Netflix, Amazon and Apple.But the stakes are high. “Mr. Iger and his lieutenants need to persuade investors to start viewing Disney more like a technology company, where near-term financial turbulence is often overlooked,” Mr. Barnes writes. And melding two corporate cultures isn’t easy.Anheuser-Busch InBev named Marty Barrington, the former C.E.O. of Altria, as its new chairman. Alex Behring, the head of the investment firm 3G Capital, stepped down from the board.Paul Ryan, the former House speaker, has joined the board of Fox.WarnerMedia named Toby Emmerich, Peter Roth and Kimberly Williams as interim co-heads of Warner Bros. while it seeks a replacement for Kevin Tsujihara.Kickstarter’s co-founder Perry Chen is stepping down as C.E.O.Barclays has hired Bob Peck, who was global head of internet investment banking at Credit Suisse, as a chairman of global internet banking.Deals• Lyft’s I.P.O. is reportedly oversubscribed, just two days after it started pitching to prospective investors. (Reuters)• Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany plans to stay out of merger talks between Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank. (NYT)• Apax and Warburg Pincus are leading a $3.3 billion takeover bid for Inmarsat, the satellite operator. (FT)• Glossier, the online cosmetics company, raised $100 million from investors led by Sequoia at a $1.2 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• Hyundai shareholders are expected to back the company in its fight against Elliott Management, which aims to shake up the carmaker’s board. (Nikkei)Politics and policy• Joe Biden reportedly told supporters that he plans to run for the Democratic presidential nomination. (WSJ)• Robert Mueller began investigating Michael Cohen’s emails in 2017, within months of starting as special counsel. (NYT)• How billions of dollars from military projects across the country could be used for President Trump’s border wall. (Axios)• The Trump administration has lost at least 63 court battles in the last two years, often for failing to provide clear explanations and allow public comment on decisions. (WaPo)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain will seek a short delay — reportedly up to three months — to Brexit. (FT)• The European Commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that European leaders may decide whether to grant a delay next week. The current Brexit deadline is next Friday. (Guardian)• Financial services companies may move an estimated £1 trillion, or $1.32 trillion, in financial assets out of Britain because of Brexit, according to the consulting firm EY. (FT)Tech• Apple is working with three nonprofits to develop anti-disinformation programs. (Axios)• Instagram introduced a feature that lets users buy clothes within its app. (NYT)• Myspace, the once-popular social network, says it may have permanently lost millions of photos, videos, and audio files from its peak period. (NYT)• An argument against breaking up Big Tech: Innovation could stagnate. (FT op-ed)• Airbnb hasn’t raised money in two years, so valuing it for an I.P.O. is tricky. (Recode)Best of the rest• Chinese companies are defaulting at “unprecedented” levels. (CNBC)• Economists around the world are trying to find an alternative to G.D.P. as a measure of prosperity. Here’s how that’s going. (Axios)• The S.E.C. plans to examine whether consolidation is reducing competition among U.S. asset managers. (FT)• The center fielder Mike Trout is reportedly near a $430 million deal with the L.A. Angels, which would be the biggest contract in North American sports history.. (ESPN)• Bill Gates has joined Jeff Bezos in the club of centibillionaires. They’re the only members. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kirk JohnsonSEATTLE — Howard Schultz faced a full-court press of troubles as 2006 began. That the Seattle SuperSonics were lousy, having their worst season in 20 years, was only the beginning.Though the Sonics were a storied N.B.A. franchise, with a league championship in 1979, attendance was down at their Seattle arena along with points scored and revenues earned. As the team’s lead owner, Mr. Schultz was facing unrest from fans and partners alike. At the same time, Starbucks, the coffee company he had built into a global giant, was about to hit a bad patch, too, as the first ripples of the Great Recession began to rise into a flood tide.You don’t have to be a basketball fan to know which problem Mr. Schultz was able to fix.The Sonics no longer exist — sold by Mr. Schultz’s group that same pivotal year, and later moved to Oklahoma City and renamed, even the memorabilia packed away. Now, as Mr. Schultz mulls running for president as an independent candidate, his path through that moment says a lot about him — how he handles adversity and uncertainty, and how he grasped or did not the nettle of local politics as the Sonics were flailing, according to more than 20 people who have observed him, befriended him or worked with or against him over the years.His basketball legacy has left many in Seattle outraged to this day, believing Mr. Schultz to be either duplicitous or duped by others. Yet his actions at Starbucks — including a raft of innovations introduced before and during the recession, like health insurance for baristas — became the stuff of adoring Harvard Business School case studies. In Fortune magazine’s ranking, Starbucks is the fifth-most admired company in the world.The common thread — deeply familiar to people in the city Mr. Schultz has called home since the early 1980s, and now echoed in his talk of entering politics — is a kind of idealistic righteousness, combined with obvious conviction about his own abilities and insights. All of which worked like a magic wand in Seattle, except when it didn’t.“There’s no question that he built an amazing business, one that Seattle has benefited from and one that has worldwide reach,” said Greg Nickels, a Democrat who was in his second term as Seattle’s mayor in 2006.“The Sonics episode, I think, was different,” Mr. Nickels added. “I think he got into it and discovered it was not what he thought it was going to be.”Mr. Schultz, 65, a self-made billionaire who grew up in public housing in Brooklyn, said in an interview — conducted, at his request, in a Starbucks — that he had not decided whether to seek the White House and had set no deadline for doing so. A self-described “lifelong Democrat,” Mr. Schultz said that he thought the Democrats were veering too far left, President Trump and the Republicans too far right, and that there was a hunger for a more centrist candidacy like the one he might put up.But he also said, as he had repeatedly in recent speeches around the nation promoting a new memoir, that he would not run if he became convinced his candidacy could aid in Mr. Trump’s re-election.Indeed, his announcement in January that he was “seriously” considering running brought an outcry from many Democrats who feared a split vote. The president chimed in, tweeting that Mr. Schultz, who had never sought public office, “doesn’t have the ‘guts,’” and Warren Buffett called a Schultz candidacy “a mistake.”As a rule in American politics, independents fail to get elected. Since the Civil War, only four minor-party candidates for president have mustered at least 10 percent of the vote: Ross Perot, George Wallace, Robert La Follette and Theodore Roosevelt. Roosevelt, a Republican turned Bull Moose candidate in the 1912 election, couldn’t win despite having been a popular president only a few years earlier. But even getting less than 10 percent can make a difference, as Ralph Nader showed in the 2000 election, which put George W. Bush in the White House through an Electoral College victory even though Al Gore, the outgoing vice president, won the popular vote.For his part, Mr. Schultz believes that an independent president could have a powerful mandate in governing, as a refutation by voters of the bitter and divisive “politics of revenge” that have paralyzed Washington. The example that it could be done would, in turn, draw out a surge of like-minded independent candidates who would reshape Congress, he added.“The current trajectory we’re on demonstrates such evidence of a broken system,” Mr. Schultz said. “I’m looking at the situation and realizing that a large majority of Americans agree with me.”If Mr. Schultz does run, his Seattle experience, combined with a back story of self-made success, would be the narrative he tells and sells. Starbucks started here, and is a different company, Mr. Schultz said, because of the culture that defines the Pacific Northwest. The Sonics failed here and were a Seattle story, too, for which Mr. Schultz has apologized. In his universe, it’s a venti-size place of success and failure.When Mr. Schultz organized an investor group to buy the SuperSonics in 2001, he took the high road of rhetoric. Sounding like a civic patron out only for the city he loved — with the grubby business of moneymaking very much an afterthought — he promised to treat the team as a kind of sacred civic trust.“This ownership group did not get involved to make a profit,” he said at one point in testifying before Washington State Legislature. “We wanted passionate people, about not only sports, but passionate people about our community.”That language and imagery came back to haunt him in the aftermath of the team’s demise.“Schultz became a pariah,” said Gary Washburn, a former Seattle sportswriter who now covers the N.B.A. for The Boston Globe.In February 2006, Mr. Schultz drove to the State Capitol in Olympia, plunked down in front a microphone in a wood-paneled Senate meeting room and repeated what some considered a threat — that he might have to sell the Sonics if he didn’t get more than $200 million in public money for renovations to their arena.He said the Sonics were losing money because they had a terrible, uncompetitive arena lacking in the profitable add-ons that other franchises had, like restaurants and stores. Public money had been lavished on other sports in Seattle in past years, he pointed out — with new play spaces for the Mariners, a baseball team, and the Seahawks, a football team. It was time to bestow some love on the N.B.A., Mr. Schultz said.It did not go well. The Sonics bailout bill did not even come up for a final vote. The political appeal of financing athletic venues had faded after the 2000 dot-com economic bust, and a ballot measure aimed at reducing taxpayer money in professional sports was gaining favor even as Mr. Schultz testified. Initiative 91, as it was called, was approved that fall by a 74 percent majority.Several people who were in the Legislature at the time said that Mr. Schultz, who had never been very involved in politics or lobbying, was treated like the outsider he was, and never appeared to understand the network of informal alliances that stood in his way. Calls were coming to legislative offices from people connected to the city’s other sports teams, saying they didn’t much like the idea of financing a lot of expensive new skybox seats.“The Mariners and Seahawks people were not terribly encouraging — they had several back channels, and sort of front channels of stuff going on,” said James McIntire, a Democratic state representative at the time who later served two terms as state treasurer.Art Thiel, a longtime columnist and sportswriter who covered the Sonics story, said Mr. Schultz simply didn’t understand the state capital. “He thought that he could do as a pro sports owner the same sorts of things that he could do as a successful business owner, which is either to charm the opposition or bully them,” he said. “He got neither done.”Barely five months after hitting a wall at the legislature, Mr. Schultz made good on his warning, announcing that he and his co-owners had sold the team to a group based in Oklahoma, which moved it and renamed it the Thunder.Mr. Schultz now calls that decision one of the major regrets of his life.“My biggest mistake still reverberates,” Mr. Schultz wrote in a recent op-ed piece in The Seattle Times. In his book, he elaborates on what happened: “Almost everyone blamed me, and after some initial denial, I realized they were right to do so. I had squandered the very public trust that I had bought into.”A longtime friend of Mr. Schultz’s, Howard Behar, a former vice president at Starbucks, said that while Mr. Schultz learned from the experience, he had been warned in advance that straying from the world he knew might be dangerous.“When he bought that company, I had a quote in the local newspaper in Seattle. I said: ‘No good will come from this — I think he’s nuts,’” Mr. Behar recalled. “And I was right. No good came from it.”The storied names of the Seattle business world roll off the tongue all over the world: Amazon, Boeing, Eddie Bauer, Microsoft, REI, Starbucks. And just as Microsoft is associated with its co-founders, Bill Gates and Paul Allen, and Amazon with its founder, Jeff Bezos, Mr. Schultz is Mr. Coffee, father of the Frappuccino and coffee sizes in butchered Italian. (The “venti,” for extra-large, which just means “20” in Italian, is a nod to the espresso culture Mr. Schultz fell in love with on a trip to Italy in 1983.)Mr. Schultz, who handed off leadership reins at the company last year, came to Seattle with his wife, Sheri, in 1982, to take a job as marketing director of Starbucks, then just a modest local seller of coffee beans. Only five years later he organized an investor group to buy the company, and then built it — with two stints as chief executive — into a retail giant with nearly 30,000 stores around the world and more than 380,000 employees.But like Seattle itself, with its vast wealth and abundant homelessness, its left-leaning social and environmental policies but no income tax on its considerable allotment of billionaires, the Schultz legacy is mixed.At his first Seattle appearance after announcing his presidential considerations, protesters gathered outside a downtown theater where he was promoting his new memoir. The protesters waved signs about “venti egos” and failed billionaire politicians, while the audience inside cheered at almost every whispered hint of a presidential run.In charitable civic work, the Schultz Family Foundation has been a force in homeless advocacy, working with shelter groups and youth-training centers in Seattle, with a data-driven approach to moving homeless families off the street quickly and into stable housing.“The foundation piloted something and proved that it worked,” said Marty Hartman, the executive director at Mary’s Place, a nonprofit shelter provider that has received more than $4.5 million from Starbucks and the Schultz foundation.But by other measures of civic engagement, like bothering to vote, Mr. Schultz has been less involved. Of 40 elections held since 2003 that he could have participated in as a Seattle resident, he voted only 12 times, according to King County records.“I’m remiss, of course, that I did not vote in those local elections, but you know I travel so much,” Mr. Schultz said in the interview — though he quickly added that he had never missed a chance to vote for president.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)DealBook exclusive: The energy company plans to announce today that it has given $5 million to Catalyst, a nonprofit focused on making corporate America more hospitable toward women.It’s funding Men Advocating Real Change, a Catalyst campaign that teaches male executives how to improve diversity and inclusion at their companies. (Among its tactics: lessons on unconscious bias.) Lorraine Hariton, Catalyst’s C.E.O., said it was the single biggest grant in the nonprofit’s 50-year history.Chevron has been a longtime supporter of Catalyst. It began working with the nonprofit 20 years ago, and Mike Wirth, the oil and gas giant’s C.E.O., helped introduce this program to the company two years ago. It now runs in seven Chevron offices worldwide.Diversity and inclusion has improved at Chevron. In 2010, only 6 percent of its board and 11 percent of its management committee were women. Now, it’s 36 percent for the board and 20 percent for the management committee. “I think the business case for this is compelling,” Mr. Wirth told Michael de la Merced of DealBook, saying more diversity has improved innovation.But there’s still a lot to do. Mr. Wirth said that oil and gas needed far more women in engineering and technical roles. And Ms. Hariton said that while companies have been hiring more women, the number of top female executives remains too small.President Trump is facing increasing pressure from Republicans, Democrats and even some of his own advisers to win the kind of large concessions that Beijing has long resisted, Alan Rappeport of the NYT writes.Mr. Trump has softened his threats against China. “Citing ‘substantial progress’ in talks between the United States and China, Mr. Trump on Sunday evening halted plans to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods at the end of this week,” Mr. Rappeport explains.But the Chinese may be dangling false promises, some top Democrats say, in hopes of ending a trade war that is damaging their economy, as well as hurting American farmers. Some Republicans fear that Mr. Trump may settle for a deal that simply reduces the trade deficit and offers relief to Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant.Many big sticking points remain, including China’s state subsidies for its businesses. Beijing also still appears to be falling short of the administration’s demands over intellectual property and cybertheft.“The blowback from both directions may leave Mr. Trump little choice but to keep the threat of tariffs alive so that he can continue to claim he’s being tough on China, analysts said,” according to Mr. Rappeport.More: The FT imagines what a trade deal might look like. Trade war is only one of the threats worrying President Xi Jinping of Chin. U.S. companies are planning their lowest rate of expansion in China since 2016. And a delay on further tariffs probably staved off inflation in America.The Securities and Exchange Commission says a series of tweets Elon Musk published last week violate its agreement with Tesla, and wants him held in contempt of court.Mr. Musk got in trouble last year by tweeting that he had “funding secured” to take Tesla private, when that wasn’t exactly the case. Tesla settled, promising the S.E.C. that it would set up “mandatory procedures to oversee and preapprove Mr. Musk’s Tesla-related written communications.”Then last week, he tweeted about a manufacturing triumph, saying Tesla would make “around 500,000” cars this year, up from a target of 400,000. He soon corrected himself and repeated the target of 400,000 deliveries. Tesla’s lawyers conceded that Mr. Musk hadn’t had his tweets reviewed, but argued “the substance” of his post had already been vetted and publicly disclosed. Mr. Musk followed up by needling the S.E.C., tweeting that it “forgot to read Tesla earnings transcript,” in which he forecast production of between 350,000 and 500,000 cars. “How embarrassing,” he added.“This is not an innocuous tweet,” Rebecca Roiphe, a professor at New York Law School, told the NYT. “Insiders have to be careful about revealing misleading information to the public.”Punishments the S.E.C. could seek, Ms. Roiphe said, include a fine, more restrictions on Mr. Musk’s social media use, or even his removal as C.E.O.With just over a month to go before Britain is scheduled to leave the E.U., Prime Minister Theresa May could U-turn on her commitment to keeping to schedule. And the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, under heavy pressure, has promised to support a second public vote.Mrs. May is letting her cabinet think the unthinkable. The prime minister, who has repeatedly insisted that Brexit will occur on March 29, will allow her colleagues “to discuss extending the deadline” today, according to Bloomberg, which sets out what she’d be risking and why:• “On one hand, it would avert mass resignations from pro-E.U. ministers in May’s team, and potentially a defeat in Parliament this week.”• “But it would also risk a destabilizing backlash from Euroskeptic Conservatives.”And Mr. Corbyn has made a big concession to pro-Europeans. He had long resisted a second Brexit referendum, but has had to reconsider after several pro-E.U. lawmakers quit his Labour Party. Stephen Castle of the NYT explains what the reversal means:• “At the moment, it is unlikely that a second vote would win a majority in Parliament because most lawmakers still oppose the idea.”• “But if Mrs. May’s Brexit plan is rejected next month for a second time, then the calculation in Parliament could change.”Dozens of current and former employees of a company called Cognizant, which reviews content for the social network, spoke to the Verge. The investigation makes for grim reading:• “Employees described a workplace that is perpetually teetering on the brink of chaos. It is an environment where workers cope by telling dark jokes about committing suicide, then smoke weed during breaks to numb their emotions.”• “In stark contrast to the perks lavished on Facebook employees, team leaders micromanage content moderators’ every bathroom and prayer break,” and employees “have been found having sex inside stairwells.”• “They are pressured not to discuss the emotional toll that their job takes on them, even with loved ones, leading to increased feelings of isolation and anxiety.”• “Moderators told me it’s a place where the conspiracy videos and memes that they see each day gradually lead them to embrace fringe views. One auditor walks the floor promoting the idea that the Earth is flat.”• “Moderators in Phoenix will make just $28,800 per year — while the average Facebook employee has a total compensation of $240,000.” Facebook’s response: In a statement yesterday, it said it was “putting in place a rigorous and regular compliance and audit process for all of our outsourced partners to ensure they are complying with the contracts and care we expect.”Bank of America plans to erase the Merrill Lynch name from its investment banking and trading arms. They’ll go by “BofA Securities” rather than “Bank of America Merrill Lynch,” and its wealth-management unit will be “Merrill.”It’s the end of an era. Merrill Lynch was one of the best-known names on Wall Street when Bank of America bought it during the 2008 financial crisis. At the time, Bank of America was a big lender, built from years of acquisitions — but a minnow in high finance.The combined firm struggled with culture clashes. Longtime Merrill employees were proud of “Mother Merrill” and the “thundering herd” that was its wealth-management arm. The WSJ reports that Bank of America backed away from changing the name before.But now it wants a seamless identity. “We are continuing to unify the company, continuing down the road we started on a decade ago,” Bank of America’s C.E.O., Brian Moynihan, told the WSJ. (He has also pushed the firm into safe businesses, de-emphasizing the risk-taking that left Merrill needing a buyer.)The only place where staying as Merrill made sense was in wealth management. Mr. Moynihan called it “the No. 1 brand there is.”Last year, President Trump replaced Janet Yellen with Jerome Powell as head of the Federal Reserve. Since, Mr. Trump has broken with precedent by publicly criticizing Mr. Powell for raising interest rates. Ms. Yellen has now made clear what she thinks of all that in an interview with Marketplace.• When the host of Marketplace, Kai Ryssdal, asked if she thought the president “has a grasp of macroeconomic policy,” Ms. Yellen replied, “No, I do not.”• When asked to elaborate, she said, “Well, I doubt that he would even be able to say that the Fed’s goals are maximum employment and price stability.”• “He’s made comments about the Fed having an exchange rate objective in order to support his trade plans, or possibly targeting the U.S. balance of trade,” she added. “And, you know, I think comments like that shows a lack of understanding of the impact of the Fed on the economy, and appropriate policy goals.”Amazon added the former PepsiCo C.E.O. Indra Nooyi to its board.Deals• G.E., continuing to dismantle itself, agreed to sell its biopharmaceutical business to Danaher for $21.4 billion. (NYT)• Warren Buffett admitted that Berkshire Hathaway overpaid for its stake in Kraft Heinz and said it wouldn’t buy more shares: “The business does not earn more just because you pay more for it.” (Bloomberg)• Barrick Gold’s $17.8 billion bid for Newmont Mining has cast a spotlight on two top deal makers: Barrick’s chairman, John Thornton, and Michael Klein, the rainmaker advising him. (Bloomberg)• How lesser-known private equity firms like Veritas Capital and CC Capital are stealing the limelight from larger rivals. (FT)• The telecom company Windstream filed for bankruptcy protection after losing a court fight with a hedge fund. (Barron’s)Politics and policy• Michael Cohen reportedly plans to tell the House Oversight Committee today that President Trump broke the law while in office. (WSJ)• The Senate appears likely to vote against Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration for a border wall. (Politico)• Alva Johnson, who worked on the 2016 Trump campaign, has accused Mr. Trump of forcibly kissing her. (NYT)• Elizabeth Warren plans to forego fund-raising events with big donors. (NYT)• Meet Andrew Goldstein, one of Robert Mueller’s top deputies for his investigation into the president. (NYT)Tech• Telecom equipment appears not to be the only Chinese tech that makes the U.S. government nervous. (CNBC)• California lawmakers want to toughen the state’s already-strict privacy laws. (Bloomberg)• Microsoft defended its military work after protests from some employees last week. (Wired)• Why Toronto is attracting top tech talent. (FT)• T-Mobile has delayed its full 5G launch until later in 2019. (Verge)Best of the rest• Do two troubled banks make one good one? Germany may soon find out. (NYT)• Why proving Jeff Bezos’ accusations of blackmail and extortion could be tricky. (NYT)• Lyft’s I.P.O. has revived a debate: Should a minority of investors be allowed to control a company through dual-class shares? (FT)• The current stock market rally has everything — except investors. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
0
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IsaacSAN FRANCISCO — Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, plans to integrate the social network’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger — asserting his control over the company’s sprawling divisions at a time when its business has been battered by scandal.The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps, but their underlying technical infrastructure will be unified, said four people involved in the effort. That will bring together three of the world’s largest messaging networks, which between them have more than 2.6 billion users, allowing people to communicate across the platforms for the first time.The move has the potential to redefine how billions of people use the apps to connect with one another while strengthening Facebook’s grip on users, raising antitrust, privacy and security questions. It also underscores how Mr. Zuckerberg is imposing his authority over units he once vowed to leave alone.The plan — which is in the early stages, with a goal of completion by the end of this year or early 2020 — requires thousands of Facebook employees to reconfigure how WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger function at their most basic levels, said the people involved in the effort, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the matter is confidential.Mr. Zuckerberg has also ordered that the apps all incorporate end-to-end encryption, the people said, a major step that protects messages from being viewed by anyone except the participants in a conversation.In a statement, Facebook said it wanted to “build the best messaging experiences we can; and people want messaging to be fast, simple, reliable and private.” It added: “We’re working on making more of our messaging products end-to-end encrypted and considering ways to make it easier to reach friends and family across networks.”By stitching the apps’ infrastructure together, Mr. Zuckerberg hopes to increase Facebook’s utility and keep users highly engaged inside the company’s ecosystem. That could reduce people’s appetite for rival messaging services, like those offered by Apple and Google. If users can interact more frequently with Facebook’s apps, the company might also be able to increase its advertising business or add new revenue-generating services, the people said.The change follows two years of scrutiny of Facebook’s core social network, which has been criticized for allowing election meddling and the spreading of disinformation. Those and other issues have slowed Facebook’s growth and damaged its reputation, raising the hackles of lawmakers and regulators around the world. Mr. Zuckerberg has repeatedly apologized for the problems and has vowed to fix them.Knitting together Facebook’s apps is a stark reversal of Mr. Zuckerberg’s previous stance toward WhatsApp and Instagram, which were independent companies that Facebook acquired. At the time of the acquisitions, Mr. Zuckerberg promised WhatsApp and Instagram plenty of autonomy from their new parent company. (Facebook Messenger is a homegrown service spun off the main Facebook app in 2014.)WhatsApp and Instagram have grown tremendously since then, prompting Mr. Zuckerberg to change his thinking, one of the people said. He now believes integrating the services more tightly will benefit Facebook’s entire “family of apps” in the long term by making them more useful, the person said. Mr. Zuckerberg floated the idea for months and began to promote it to employees more heavily toward the end of 2018, the people said.The effort has caused strife within Facebook. Instagram’s founders, Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger,  left the company abruptly last fall after Mr. Zuckerberg began weighing in more. WhatsApp’s founders, Jan Koum and Brian Acton,  departed for similar reasons. More recently, dozens of WhatsApp employees clashed with Mr. Zuckerberg over the integration plan on internal message boards and during a contentious staff meeting in December, according to four people who attended or were briefed on the event.The integration plan raises privacy questions because of how users’ data may be shared between services. WhatsApp currently requires only a phone number when new users sign up. By contrast, Facebook and Facebook Messenger ask users to provide their true identities. Matching Facebook and Instagram users to their WhatsApp handles could give pause to those who prefer to keep their use of each app separate.“As you would expect, there is a lot of discussion and debate as we begin the long process of figuring out all the details of how this will work,” Facebook said in a statement.Marc Rotenberg, president and executive director the Electronic Privacy Information Center, said on Friday that the change would be “a terrible outcome for internet users.” He urged the Federal Trade Commission, America’s de facto privacy regulator, to “act now to protect privacy and to preserve competition.”Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California, criticized the change on antitrust grounds.“This is why there should have been far more scrutiny during Facebook’s acquisitions of Instagram and WhatsApp, which now clearly seem like horizontal mergers that should have triggered antitrust scrutiny,” he said in a message on Twitter. “Imagine how different the world would be if Facebook had to compete with Instagram and WhatsApp.”People in many countries often rely on only one or two text messaging services. In China, WeChat, which is made by Tencent, is popular, while WhatsApp is heavily used in South America. Americans are more divided in their use of such services, SMS text messages, Apple’s iMessage and various Google chat apps.For Facebook, the move also offers avenues for making money from Instagram and WhatsApp. WhatsApp currently generates little revenue; Instagram produces ad revenue but none from its messaging. Mr. Zuckerberg does not yet have specific plans for how to profit from integrating the services, said two of the people involved in the matter. A more engaged audience could result in new forms of advertising or other services for which Facebook could charge a fee, they said.One potential business opportunity involves Facebook Marketplace, a free Craigslist-like product where people can buy and sell goods. The service is popular in Southeast Asia and other markets outside the United States.When the apps are knitted together, Facebook Marketplace buyers and sellers in Southeast Asia will be able to communicate with one another using WhatsApp, which is popular in the region, rather than using Facebook Messenger or another, non-Facebook text message service. That could eventually yield new ad opportunities or profit-generating services, said one of the people.Some Facebook employees said they were confused about what made combining the messaging services so compelling to Mr. Zuckerberg. Some said it was jarring because of his past promises about independence. When Facebook acquired WhatsApp for $19 billion in 2014, Mr. Koum talked publicly about user privacy, and said, “If partnering with Facebook meant that we had to change our values, we wouldn’t have done it.”Last month, during one of WhatsApp’s monthly meetings for staff members, it became clear that Mr. Zuckerberg’s mandate would be a priority in 2019, said a person who was there. One WhatsApp employee then conducted an analysis of how many potential new users in the United States the integration plan could bring to Facebook, said two people familiar with the study. The total was relatively meager, the analysis showed.To assuage concerns, Mr. Zuckerberg called a follow-up meeting with WhatsApp employees a few days later, three of the people said. On Dec. 7, employees gathered around microphones at the WhatsApp offices to ask him why he was so invested in merging the services. Some said his answers were vague and meandering. Several WhatsApp employees have left or plan to leave because of Mr. Zuckerberg’s plans, the people said.Unifying the infrastructure for WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger is technically challenging. Unlike Facebook Messenger and Instagram, WhatsApp does not store messages and keeps minimal user data. It is the only one of the services to currently use end-to-end encryption by default.Encrypted messaging has long been supported by privacy advocates who fear governments or hackers may gain access to people’s personal messages. But it will raise other issues for Facebook, particularly related to its ability to spot and curb the spread of illicit activity or disinformation.Last year, researchers had trouble tracking disinformation on WhatsApp before the Brazilian presidential election, before eventually finding ways to do so. WhatsApp has recently placed limits on how many times a message can be forwarded on the service, in an effort to reduce the distribution of false content.Follow Mike Isaac on Twitter: @MikeIsaac.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byDealBookA simple rule that bolsters the banking system — “know your customer” — could help combat fake news and hate speech online if companies like Facebook and Twitter embraced it. By Andrew Ross SorkinExactly a year ago, Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, testified before Congress and apologized for his company’s role in enabling “fake news, foreign interference in elections and hate speech.” It was a memorable moment amid a broader reckoning that continues to inspire debate over how closely Facebook and other technology giants should be regulated. As Silicon Valley grapples with its version of becoming too big to fail, Mr. Zuckerberg and his industry peers might take lessons from Wall Street, whose leaders have some experience with government scrutiny. (On Wednesday, bank chief executives were being grilled by Congress.) Although it won’t address all of Big Tech’s problems, a simple rule that bolsters the banking system could do a lot to clean up some of the uglier aspects of social media that Mr. Zuckerberg felt compelled to apologize for. The concept is “know your customer” — or KYC, as it’s called on Wall Street — and it’s straightforward: Given concerns about privacy, security and fraud when it comes to money, no bank is allowed to take on a new customer without verifying its existence and vetting its background. The idea of applying such a rule to social media has been floated before, but it has so far failed to take hold. Now may be the right time. Consider this: Facebook has said it shut down over 1.5 billion fake accounts from April through September last year (yes, that’s a “B” in billion). That was up from the 1.3 billion such accounts it eliminated in the six previous months. To put those numbers in context, Facebook has a reported user base of 2.3 billion. What if social media companies had to verify their users the same way banks do? You'd probably feel more confident that you were interacting with real people and were not just a target for malicious bots. First, let’s acknowledge the practical considerations. Vetting the vast universe of those on social media would be a gargantuan task. When I broached the idea of applying a “know your customer” principle to their business, several senior executives at social media companies recoiled at the prospect, questioning how they would pull off such a huge feat, especially in emerging markets where many people lack credit cards, and even fixed street addresses can be hard to come by. Then there are the legitimate complaints about Facebook and its ilk already knowing too much about users. Who would want them to know even more? And what would the companies do to protect personal information better than they have in the past? After all, not long ago, Facebook disclosed that tens of millions of user passwords had not been stored securely.But the stakes may be too high not to consider some kind of heightened verification process.Facebook and Twitter, at least, clearly appreciate the importance of verification as a concept: Both offer blue-check-mark programs to confirm the authenticity of a small percentage of users, like celebrities.If the vetting of legitimate users were expanded, and the number of phony ones were reduced, the amount of hate speech and fake news polluting the social media platforms would almost certainly dwindle. And it would be hard for the companies to willfully ignore what remained.How would it work? A modified version of what goes on in the financial services industry is one possibility.When you open a bank account, you typically have to provide your name, address, Social Security number and date of birth.That information is crosschecked against databases to ensure that you’re a real person, that your credit score is solid and that your name doesn’t appear on a list of “politically exposed persons” that could put you at risk for bribery or corruption. The verification is also used to determine whether you have a criminal record that suggests possible money laundering or identity theft.That kind of vetting helps protect banks from doing business with criminals and helps protect clients who could be vulnerable to fraud.There is a precedent for adapting such a regimen for social media: NextDoor, a social network that helps people communicate in their local communities, won’t let new users sign up unless their addresses can be verified.A would-be NextDoor user must submit a credit card or phone number, which the site cross-references against databases. If you don’t have either, the site sends a postcard to your address with a code you can use online.The good news is that NextDoor knows its customers very well. The bad news is that its verification process would be extremely difficult to expand widely and quickly.The company doesn’t disclose user numbers, only that it is in more than 200,000 neighborhoods. Reports suggest it has tens of millions of users, a far cry from the billions using more popular social networks. If introducing such a system at that scale is too daunting, testing it in the United States and Canada first might be one way to start.The need for a “know your customer” rule could take on a new urgency as social networks evolve to become fully encrypted private-messaging services, as Mr. Zuckerberg has indicated he plans to do with Facebook.“I believe the future of communication will increasingly shift to private, encrypted services where people can be confident what they say to each other stays secure and their messages and content won’t stick around forever,” he said.It’s a laudable goal, but if the users are fake, or otherwise unaccountable, from the outset, the ease with which they could spread misinformation on encrypted networks would have even more troubling implications.That is, unless, there was a viable mechanism for vouching for individual identities — for networks to know their customers, as it were. It just seems like common sense.Andrew Ross Sorkin is a columnist and the founder and editor-at-large of DealBook. He is a co-anchor of CNBC’s Squawk Box and the author of “Too Big to Fail.” He is also the co-creator of the Showtime drama series Billions.  @andrewrsorkin • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNot in the United States, anyway. By Sarah JeongMs. Jeong is a member of the editorial board. In an opinion article published last weekend, Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said he agreed with the growing consensus that Facebook — and other social media companies — should be subject to more regulation. The article, published in four countries and three languages, was fated to be misunderstood from the start.His first suggestion was to create an independent body so users could appeal Facebook’s moderation decisions. Over the past few years, Facebook has caught fire from all sides for its content moderation. Some say hate speech should be censored more aggressively. At the same time, the company has been accused of censoring conservative viewpoints. And for years, it has been roundly criticized for its puritanical ban on female nipples.But if Facebook had its way, the ultimate authority would no longer lie with Facebook — or Twitter or YouTube or other competitors. That job would fall to unspecified “regulators.”“Regulation could set baselines for what’s prohibited and require companies to build systems for keeping harmful content to a bare minimum,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. For a company exhausted by a year of scandal, a regulatory scapegoat is just what the doctor ordered. If you don’t like what we do, why don’t you try it for a change?American legal experts were incredulous. Daphne Keller of the Stanford Center for Internet and Society accused Facebook of proposing an unconstitutional system, knowing it was impossible. In an initial statement, Ben Wizner of the American Civil Liberties Union said it was a violation of the First Amendment. The Electronic Frontier Foundation claimed it would violate the freedom of expression guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.Facebook’s head of public policy, Kevin Martin, explained that while Mr. Zuckerberg’s reference to “regulation” might mean actual government intervention in France, Germany and Ireland, it meant only private sector self-regulation in the United States.This kind of faux regulation is nothing new. Among the examples cited were Finra, a nongovernmental financial industry “regulator”; the Motion Picture Association of America, which rates films; and the Entertainment Software Rating Board, which rates video games. (After this clarification, the A.C.L.U.’s Mr. Wizner agreed that independent bodies like the M.P.A.A. are not unconstitutional).But none of these examples deal with directly regulating speech. Social media content moderation is a different beast entirely. Slapping a label on a video game isn’t the same as banning distribution of the video game.Facebook avoided bringing up the Hays Code, the closest corollary to what they propose. The M.P.A.A.’s current rating system is a pale shadow of Hollywood’s old Hays Code, the now-laughable list of rules that for years had onscreen husbands and wives sleeping in separate beds.The Code was developed voluntarily by the studios in hopes of avoiding government censorship. It zealously policed depictions of romance, crime, law enforcement and the clergy. When the Supreme Court held that motion pictures were protected by the First Amendment in 1952, enforcement of the code diminished. Facebook’s proposal is a bow to public opinion. Last year, a coalition of advocacy groups published the Santa Clara Principles — new baseline rules for how content moderation should work. The principles focus most heavily on the right to appeal decisions — particularly in conjunction with “new independent self-regulatory mechanisms” created in collaboration with industry.All this sounds like what The Verge’s Casey Newton calls “a Facebook Supreme Court. ” It’s almost as though the Santa Clara Principles were developed by a room full of lawyers. Hammer, meet nail.Due process would be much welcomed in a world where people believe simultaneously that Facebook takes down too little content or too much. But due process is costly, even after removing high-billing lawyers from the equation. Consider that the Supreme Court, with a budget of nearly $90 million, receives 8,000 petitions a year — most of which are rejected. Meanwhile, according to a class-action lawsuit filed by an ex-Facebook moderator, “moderators are asked to review more than 10 million potentially rule-breaking posts per week.”No wonder content moderation on the big platforms doesn’t so much resemble an unpleasant visit to the Department of Motor Vehicles as it does a re-enactment of the horror film “The Purge.” Due process is a luxury good.We’re not likely to see a Facebook Supreme Court — not an American one, in any event. The Hays Code died after the First Amendment was extended to movies; a Hays Code for the internet will probably be dead on arrival. In a confused, fractured world, Facebook would be glad to stick to a single global standard. This is perhaps why Mr. Zuckerberg offers full-throated praise of the European Union’s privacy standard, the General Data Protection Regulation, in his op-ed. The fracture of the internet into different spheres of influence would be bad for his business, and to that end, the company would much rather impose European sensibilities on the American internet than deal with multiple standards. So, while the American government has its hands tied behind its back by the Constitution, the French, the Germans and the Irish will set their own bar for online speech. In the future, American speech — at least online — may be governed by Europe. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Jamie CondliffeEach week, we review the week’s news, offering analysis about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi, I’m Jamie Condliffe. Greetings from London. Here’s a look at the week’s tech news:Mark Zuckerberg has a vision that he’d like Congress to share.Lawmakers seem to agree that there are too few tech companies with too much power, and that Big Tech needs to be regulated. What they can’t agree on is how do it: Break companies up, tax them more, apply privacy rules, remove liability protections. The list goes on. There are lots of options, none particularly well developed, and little consensus on what might work.Mr. Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, appeared to take advantage of this when he made his own proposal for regulation in a Washington Post op-ed. According to Corynne McSherry, the legal director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights group, Mr. Zuckerberg’s proposals were “an effort to get ahead” of the many suggestions already on the table and “shape what happens down the pike.”The proposals were not earth-shattering; most had been suggested by policymakers already, or even put into effect in other parts of the world. But Mr. Zuckerberg fleshed them out into one of the more actionable calls for tech regulation that we’ve yet seen.They may seem like an appealing first draft of the rules to some lawmakers. An obvious question is: Should they be?“Legislation is written by legislators, and that is what they’re elected to do — no industry can replace that,” said Jason Oxman, the chief executive of the Information Technology Industry Council, a trade association. He added that “the tech industry will want to make its voice heard,” and that “it’s certainly our hope that Congress will balance a need to encourage innovation” with issues like maintaining privacy.Ms. McSherry said she was “very concerned” about the idea that policymakers might look to the chief executives of Silicon Valley for guidance on what they should do.“It’s sort of asking the foxes how best to guard the henhouse,” she said.My colleague Mike Isaac read between the lines of what Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. And all of his proposals appear to suggest regulation that would strengthen Facebook — by allowing Facebook to squash competitors, say, or better enable it to meld its main platform with its other properties, Instagram and WhatsApp.If regulation is to genuinely curb Big Tech’s power, Congress may be better served by spending less time on theatrical tech C.E.O. testimony and more time listening to the technologists who built the systems they’re trying to regulate and to the people who use them.Don’t panic, but some stickers could help run an autonomous car off the road.Driverless cars use artificial intelligence, often based on so-called neural networks, to interpret camera images. Such software can identify a stop sign. But small visual tweaks to an object, barely observable to humans, can fire connections in neural networks to convince them they’re looking at something else, like a speed-limit sign.Researchers from the Keen Security Lab, part of the technology company Tencent, reported that a similar trick forced an autonomous car to switch lanes. Tesla’s Autopilot software, they showed, uses only camera data to detect lanes, and small visual tweaks to a road surface could cause its neural networks to think road markings were veering. In tests, stickers on a road caused a Tesla Model S in Autopilot mode to swerve into another lane.Tesla said in a statement that “a driver can easily override Autopilot at any time by using the steering wheel or brakes and should always be prepared to do so.”But it demonstrates the fragility of current A.I. “You would expect the system to behave robustly,” said Marta Kwiatkowska, a professor of computing systems at the University of Oxford. “If you change the input very slightly, the output should change only very slightly.”Solving the problem isn’t just about improving A.I. The entire system needs to be made more robust by creating additional checks using other sensors, Ms. Kwiatkowska said. “We need to engineer these systems better,” she said.There’s a lot of awful stuff online. Not liking it is easy. Actually overcoming it is hard.Silicon Valley workers are aware of the problem. On Tuesday, Bloomberg published a report that said YouTube executives had ignored employee proposals to “change recommendations and curb conspiracies.” Their suggestions were reportedly “sacrificed for engagement.”Executives, like YouTube’s chief product officer, Neal Mohan, insist that the algorithms may be designed to keep people watching but not to recommend things like extremist content, even if that’s what they end up doing. After all, it “doesn’t monetize,” he said, because advertisers “don’t want to be associated with this sort of content.”But recommend they do, so calls for rules that force content takedowns are unsurprising. The most recent: a law passed in Australia on Thursday, which threatens big fines for companies if they fail to swiftly remove violent material.Sadly, it may not be that easy to solve the whole harmful content problem:■ First, defining “harmful” is a minefield. As Ms. McSherry of the Electronic Frontier Foundation put it to me, one person’s harmful content can be another’s political expression.■ That feeds a second issue: In the United States, moves toward mandatory takedowns of specific kinds of content could quickly run afoul of the First Amendment.■ Third, the technical challenge is huge. Tech companies have struggled for years to do it with the most troubling of content, and promises that A.I. will solve the problem have yet to bear fruit.None of this excuses the proliferation of harmful content online. But it helps explain why progress is so slow.Facebook user data spilled out again. Researchers found records for hundreds of millions of users stored publicly by a third party on Amazon’s cloud servers. (Also: Facebook might start a news service.)Wall Street is getting cold feet over cryptocurrencies. The plans of big banks are faltering, showing how hard it is to take a fringe technology into mainstream finance.What actually happens in a venture capital pitch? This, according to Wired.Washington is preparing for a 5G future including Huawei. The world doesn’t hear America’s security concerns, so the government is reportedly coming to terms with using “dirty networks.” (Also: Chicago and Minneapolis became the first cities in the United States to have 5G.)The biggest lobbyist for New York’s congestion charge? Uber, which spent $2 million backing the tolls. It’s trying to fend off claims that it causes congestion.A.I. experts want Amazon to stop selling facial recognition software to law enforcement. They argue that it is biased against women and people of color.Banning Netflix from the Oscars could violate antitrust laws. An exclusion that crimps movie sales could be anticompetitive.Want a smart home but don’t know where to start? Allow us to be your guide.Jamie Condliffe is editor of the DealBook newsletter. He also writes the weekly Bits newsletter. Follow him on Twitter here: @jme_c.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byTimes InsiderJake Orta was not aware he was searching the bins of Mark Zuckerberg’s house until we told him who owned the place.By Thomas FullerTimes Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.Talk about your plenty and talk about your ills,One man gathers what another man spills — “St. Stephen,” The Grateful DeadAround two years ago, a reporter who had just joined The Times, Sheera Frenkel, told me she had heard that trash pickers in San Francisco were congregating at the dumpsters of tech companies because the food they threw away was high quality. I was intrigued by this and over the next year, whenever I had a free evening, I hung out near the dumpsters of Twitter and smaller tech companies, talking to trash pickers and the homeless.Recyclers came for the plentiful cardboard and cans, but I never found evidence that tech companies were throwing out particularly good food on a mass scale. In fact it was the contrary: I discovered nonprofit organizations — like Replate, founded by a Syrian migrant who had studied at the University of California, Berkeley — that collect uneaten food from tech companies and deliver it to homeless shelters and soup kitchens across the San Francisco Bay Area.But my informal investigations got me interested in the world of trash picking and eventually led to my recent article about Jake Orta, an Air Force veteran turned full-time trash picker who lives three blocks from the well-fenced house of Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder.Trash picking is nothing new in San Francisco. Generations have collected everything from furniture and appliances to lumber from the city’s sidewalks and dumpsters.But these days garbage picking is juxtaposed with the extreme wealth that has pushed up housing costs in San Francisco to the point where a family of four earning less than $117,400 is eligible for low-income housing.I met many trash pickers over the past two years. Some were reluctant to give their names. Others moved away. I was introduced to Mr. Orta by Nick Marzano, an Australian photographer who documents trash picking in his nonprofit magazine, Mission Gold.Taciturn and mission-driven, Mr. Orta is a Texas native who in addition to serving in the military spent time as a cook, but fell into homelessness and substance abuse.During a particularly rainy San Francisco winter, Jim Wilson, our bureau photographer, and I wandered the slick streets of the Mission and the hills around Dolores Park with Mr. Orta as he scoured garbage bins for things he could sell.There are parts of San Francisco, like Nob Hill and Pacific Heights, that have long been known for mansions and luxury hotels. Mr. Orta’s neighborhood is in full-blown transition, an uneasy blend of crumbling tenements and freshly painted restored Victorian homes; grocery shops catering to the Latino working class and boutiques selling “small-batch chocolates,” designer sunglasses and fine leather shoes.In the early evening, when Mr. Orta begins his rounds, Wi-Fi-equipped buses swing around tight corners, ready to disgorge tech workers from Silicon Valley.In a city where nearly everything can be done with an app, Mr. Orta does not have a phone. So coordinating with him was difficult. We set a time to meet at his apartment and hoped he would be there. Often he was not.When his beloved Dallas Cowboys lost to the Los Angeles Rams in the playoffs in January, Mr. Orta could not be roused from his small studio apartment.He is not a class warrior, nor is he particularly opinionated about politics or income inequality. He was not aware he was searching the bins of Mr. Zuckerberg’s house until we told him who owned the place.And I found him to be ambivalent about trash picking, which he has been doing full time for six years. On some days he described it as an addiction. He was excited about what he might find on his treks through the city.On other days he said his dream was to go back into the food business.“I want to get a food truck and make Texas-style brisket,” he told me one night as he pulled a suitcase with a missing wheel that he had just retrieved from a garbage bin.“This,” he said looking back at the suitcase, “is not my ultimate goal.”Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.Thomas Fuller is the San Francisco bureau chief. He has spent the past two decades in postings abroad for The Times and the International Herald Tribune in Europe and, most recently, in Southeast Asia.  @thomasfullerNYT • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael LaForgia, Matthew Rosenberg and Gabriel J.X. DanceFederal prosecutors are conducting a criminal investigation into data deals Facebook struck with some of the world’s largest technology companies, intensifying scrutiny of the social media giant’s business practices as it seeks to rebound from a year of scandal and setbacks.A grand jury in New York has subpoenaed records from at least two prominent makers of smartphones and other devices, according to two people who were familiar with the requests and who insisted on anonymity to discuss confidential legal matters. Both companies had entered into partnerships with Facebook, gaining broad access to the personal information of hundreds of millions of its users.The companies were among more than 150, including Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Sony, that had cut sharing deals with the world’s dominant social media platform. The agreements, previously reported in The New York Times, let the companies see users’ friends, contact information and other data, sometimes without consent. Facebook has phased out most of the partnerships over the past two years.“We are cooperating with investigators and take those probes seriously,” a Facebook spokesman said in a statement. “We’ve provided public testimony, answered questions and pledged that we will continue to do so.”[Read Brian Chen’s story on what he found when he downloaded his Facebook data.]It is not clear when the grand jury inquiry, overseen by prosecutors with the United States attorney’s office for the Eastern District of New York, began or exactly what it is focusing on. Facebook was already facing scrutiny by the Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission. And the Justice Department’s securities fraud unit began investigating it after reports that Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm, had improperly obtained the Facebook data of 87 million people and used it to build tools that helped President Trump’s election campaign.The Justice Department and the Eastern District declined to comment for this article.The Cambridge investigation, still active, is being run by prosecutors from the Northern District of California. One former Cambridge employee said investigators questioned him as recently as late February. He and three other witnesses in the case, speaking on the condition of anonymity so they would not anger prosecutors, said a significant line of inquiry involved Facebook’s claims that it was misled by Cambridge.[Read more on the 5 ways Facebook shared your data.]In public statements, Facebook executives had said that Cambridge told the company it was gathering data only for academic purposes. But the fine print accompanying a quiz app that collected the information said it could also be used commercially. Selling user data would have violated Facebook’s rules at the time, yet the social network does not appear to have regularly checked that apps were complying. Facebook deleted the quiz app in December 2015.The disclosures about Cambridge last year thrust Facebook into the worst crisis of its history. Then came news reports last June and December that Facebook had given business partners — including makers of smartphones, tablets and other devices — deep access to users’ personal information, letting some companies effectively override users’ privacy settings.The sharing deals empowered Microsoft’s Bing search engine to map out the friends of virtually all Facebook users without their explicit consent, and allowed Amazon to obtain users’ names and contact information through their friends. Apple was able to hide from Facebook users all indicators that its devices were even asking for data.Privacy advocates said the partnerships seemed to violate a 2011 consent agreement between Facebook and the F.T.C., stemming from allegations that the company had shared data in ways that deceived consumers. The deals also appeared to contradict statements by Mark Zuckerberg and other executives that Facebook had clamped down several years ago on sharing the data of users’ friends with outside developers.F.T.C. officials, who spent the past year investigating whether Facebook violated the 2011 agreement, are now weighing the sharing deals as they negotiate a possible multibillion-dollar fine. That would be the largest such penalty ever imposed by the trade regulator.Facebook has aggressively defended the partnerships, saying they were permitted under a provision in the F.T.C. agreement that covered service providers — companies that acted as extensions of the social network.The company has taken steps in the past year to tackle data misuse and misinformation. Last week, Mr. Zuckerberg unveiled a plan that would begin to pivot Facebook away from being a platform for public sharing and put more emphasis on private communications.Nicholas Confessore, Alan Feuer and Rebecca R. Ruiz contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAdd a criminal investigation to the list of technical difficulties and PR disasters. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. Exactly when did Facebook become the Job of internet companies?Just like the beleaguered biblical character who endured woe after woe at God’s behest, this social media giant finds itself repeatedly hit by bad news. The difference is that Job was blameless while Facebook has brought many of these disasters upon itself.The biggest recent blow was a report on Wednesday that federal prosecutors in the Eastern District of New York were conducting a criminal investigation into deals Facebook had made with other companies that gave them access to data, allegedly without the consent of users.Other calamities within the last week alone include a report from the British government accusing Facebook and other companies of hindering consumer choice and stifling innovation and calling for strong regulation; Facebook managing to look as if it was trying to block Senator Elizabeth Warren’s attempt to advertise her plan to break up big tech companies like Facebook on Facebook; its services, including the popular Instagram app, going down around the globe, and on Thursday, the announced departures of Chris Cox, Facebook’s powerful chief product officer, and Chris Daniels, the boss of WhatsApp — a giant neon sign that the company is in pain. I think we can safely say that only Aunt Becky from “Full House” — that would be Lori Loughlin, captain of the college admissions bad parenting squad — is having a worse time this week. The Warren ad mess appears to reflect sloppiness by Facebook — she used its logo without permission in some ads, and the company typically pulls down those fast. They have since been restored. And the breakdown? The company has ruled out an outside attack, so it just looks like some Facebook technical issue.But the other developments are more serious for the company. The 150-page report from the chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain calls for giving users the ability to move data to third parties, making that data available to rivals and creating a code of conduct that includes fines for violations.Senator Warren has gone further by calling for both a breakup of business units and also an unwinding of acquisitions.Like Facebook’s purchase of Instagram. Like Facebook’s purchase of WhatsApp. Those.Basically, she is aiming directly at the social giant’s future, which Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder and chief executive, pretty much admitted last week when he wrote a memo about integrating those purchases and shifting the platform to a focus on privacy rather than public sharing.That memo became more interesting to me after The New York Times reported on the new criminal investigation in the Eastern District. Facebook was already lousy with active investigations led by an alphabet of federal agencies including the Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well state inquiries and tons of lawsuits. What’s more, federal prosecutors in the Northern District of California are looking into whether Facebook was in fact misled by Cambridge Analytica or if it knew more than it has acknowledged. But that inquiry has been only flirting with the idea of criminal culpability. The new one revealed on Wednesday is a significant escalation for the company.Let’s be clear: This is a criminal investigation, not an oops-we-made-another-sloppy-error one. Which is why Facebook is trying so mightily to lump it in with the other inquiries.“It has already been reported that there are ongoing federal investigations, including by the Department of Justice,” a Facebook representative said in a statement. “As we have said before, we are cooperating with investigators and take these probes seriously. We’ve provided public testimony, answered questions, and pledged that we will continue to do so.”But the Eastern District inquiry is not the same, and this is new and worrisome territory for Facebook.Criminal anything is scary enough, but this news will also have an impact on its management’s ability to concentrate on creating innovative products or buying companies to help it get to the next phase of the always-changing tech game. That is no small thing. As the British report pointed out, there have been 400 acquisitions in tech, none of which has been rejected by regulators. That will surely no longer be the case for Facebook.The departure of the two Facebook managers is also a distraction; the internal situation is looking as unstable as the external. All this is a reminder of what happened almost two decades ago when Microsoft was under investigation for anti-competitive behavior and monopoly practices. Back then, the company was hit by the press and regulators daily, which drastically slowed its momentum.As the accusations piled up, Microsoft lost people’s trust. Of all the consequences that Facebook faces, this would be the most damaging.You can’t calculate trust by coding or algorithms. But Facebook is clearly losing it. Everyone is beginning to assume the worst, even if it is not fair. What’s ironic is that this is all escalating when it’s evident that the management of the company does seem to get that it needs to change and quickly.“Mark knows he is over a barrel,” said one person familiar with Mr. Zuckerberg’s thinking. “That has sunk in very much now.”Good, because such self-reflection has been painfully slow for Mr. Zuckerberg and others at Facebook.This doesn’t mean the situation is hopeless for the company. Despite being seen as the font of all that was bad with tech way back in 2001, Microsoft recovered nicely and is today considered one of tech’s most upstanding citizens. Mr. Zuckerberg may be able to pull something similar off. After all, this is one guy we can be sure didn’t need to bribe his way into Harvard.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBefore you post that baby bump or college acceptance letter online, remember how much fun it used to be to share in person. By KJ Dell’AntoniaMs. Dell'Antonia is a novelist who writes frequently about parenthood.My kids have had some good news lately. Academic triumphs, hockey tournament wins, even a little college admissions excitement. They’ve had rough moments too, and bittersweet ones. There have been last games and disappointments and unwashed dishes galore. If you’re a friend, or even somebody who knows my mom and struck up a friendly conversation in line at the grocery store, I’d love to talk to you about any of it. I might even show you pictures.But I’m not going to post them on social media. Because I tried that for a while, and I came to a simple conclusion about getting the reactions of friends, family and acquaintances via emojis and exclamations points rather than hugs and actual exclamations. It’s no fun. And I don’t want to do it any more.I’m not the only one pulling back from social media. While around two-thirds of American adults use Facebook, the way many of us use it has shifted in recent years. About 40 percent of adult users report taking a break from checking Facebook for several weeks or more, and 26 percent tell researchers they’ve deleted the app from their phone at some point in the past year.Some have changed their behavior because of Facebook’s lax record on protecting user data: More than half of adult users have adjusted their privacy settings in the past year. Others seem more concerned with how the platform makes them act and feel. Either way, pulling back on social media is a way to embrace your family’s privacy. “I have definitely seen an evolution toward sharing less,” said Julianna Miner, an adjunct professor of global and community health at George Mason University and the author of the forthcoming “Raising a Screen-Smart Kid: Embrace the Good and Avoid the Bad in the Digital Age.” She added, “It’s hard to tell if the changes are a response to the security breaches, or a result of people just getting tired of it.” Even Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, seems to suspect it’s at least in part the latter — that after experimenting with living our lives in a larger online sphere for over a decade, many of us are ready to return to the more intimate groups where humans have long thrived. In a recent blog post, Mr. Zuckerberg announced plans to emphasize private conversations and smaller communities on the platform. Interacting on Facebook, he wrote, “will become a fundamentally more private experience” — less “town square,” more “living room.”[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]That’s a shift I’ve already made for myself, and since doing so, I find myself asking why I embraced my personal soapbox in that online square in the first place. The more I reserve both good news and personal challenges for sharing directly with friends, the more I see that the digital world never offered the same satisfaction or support. Instead, I lost out on moments of seeing friends’ faces light up at joyful news, and frequently found myself wishing that not everyone within my network had been privy to a rant or disappointment.“There’s plenty of evidence that interpersonal, face-to-face interactions yield a stronger neural response than anything you can do online,” said Ms. Miner. “Online empathy is worth something to us, but not as much. It takes something like six virtual hugs to equal one real hug.” Time spent seeking those virtual hugs can take us outside the world we’re living in, and draw us back to our phones (which, of course, is the reason many networks offer those bursts of feedback in the first place).“Ultimately, you’re not just giving social media the time it takes you to post,” said Stacey Steinberg, the associate director of the Center on Children and Families at the University of Florida Levin College of Law and the author of a paper on the topic called “Sharenting: Children’s Privacy in the Age of Social Media.” “The interaction doesn’t end the minute you press share,” she said. “Some part of your mind is waiting for responses, and that amounts to a small distraction that takes us away from whatever else we would be engaged in.” Once we post that image of our toddler flossing, we’re no longer entirely watching him dance. Some part of us is in the digital realm, waiting to have our delight validated.That validation can be satisfying, but the emotion is fleeting, like the sugar rush that comes from replacing a real breakfast with a Pop-Tart. Watching your mother’s reaction to the same video, though, brings a different kind of pleasure. “I see parents sharing differently than I did five years ago,” said Ms. Steinberg. “We’re looking for smaller audiences and ways to share just with close friends.”She also warned that even seemingly innocuous public updates have long shadows. “You could have a child who was a star baseball player and later decides to make a change, still being asked by relative strangers about his batting average,” she said. “Or one who decides on a college, and then changes her mind. Decisions are complex. Lives are complex. Marie Kondo-ing your Facebook page is not so easy.”There are exceptions. Facebook shines as an arena for professional connection and promotion, of course. For those of us with children who have special needs, it can offer an invaluable community of support. And for the very worst of bad news — for calamities or illnesses or deaths — Facebook can help users speedily share updates, ask for help and share obituaries and memories.Cal Newport, the author of “Digital Minimalism: Choosing a Focused Life in a Noisy World,” suggests that when we evaluate the ways we use the social media tools available to us, we ask ourselves if those tools are the best ways to achieve our goals. In those cases, the answer is yes. But for sharing personal moments, for venting, for getting good advice on parenting challenges while feeling supported in our tougher moments? I’ve found that real life, face-to-face, hug-to-hug contact offers more bang for my buck than anything on a screen ever could. Why cheat yourself out of those pleasures for the momentary high of a pile of “likes”?Recently, I ran into an acquaintance while waiting for my order at a local restaurant. “Congratulations,” she said, warmly. I racked my brain. I’d sold a book that week, but the information wasn’t public. I wasn’t pregnant, didn’t have a new job, had not won the lottery. My takeout ordering skills didn’t really seem worthy of note, and in fact I probably had asked for too much food, as I usually do. I wanted to talk more about this happy news, but what were we talking about? Fortunately, she went on, “Your son must be so thrilled.”Right. My oldest — admitted to college. He was thrilled, and so were we, and I said so. But how did she know?My son told her daughter, one of his classmates, and her daughter told her.Perfect.KJ Dell’Antonia is the author of “How to Be a Happier Parent” and the forthcoming novel “The Chicken Sisters.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)Facebook plans to start shifting people toward private messaging and away from the public broadcasting on which its business has been built, Mike Isaac of the NYT reports:• Mark Zuckerberg said yesterday that the company “would focus on private and encrypted communications, in which users message mostly smaller groups of people they know.”• “Unlike publicly shared posts that are kept as users’ permanent records, the communications could also be deleted after a certain period of time.”• “He said Facebook would achieve the shift partly by integrating Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger so that users worldwide could easily message one another across the networks.”• That, Mr. Zuckerberg said, would make Facebook a “living room,” rather than a “town square.”Facebook’s declining public perception, fueled by fake news and data privacy scandals, is driving the shift. “Frankly we don’t currently have a strong reputation for building privacy protective services,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. To grow, and roll out new technologies like its reported cryptocurrency, the company needs to regain trust.But plenty of questions remain:• What’s the business model? Most of the company’s current profits come from openly sharing content and displaying targeted ads, which doesn’t fit with the privacy push. Mr. Zuckerberg argued that there were “all kinds of different commerce opportunities” available in a shift to privacy, but didn’t elaborate.• Should its platforms be integrated? It’s not clear that users want Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger to be combined. And Facebook could find itself facing allegations of anti-competitive behavior by tying them together.• When will it happen? Mr. Zuckerberg had promised to improve Facebook’s privacy in the past and then was painfully slow to act. (A “Clear History” tool announced last year still hasn’t arrived.)____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in New York, and Michael J. de la Merced and Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________Huawei sued the U.S. government yesterday over a ban on government agencies using the Chinese telecom giant’s products because they could violate American national security.The U.S. says Huawei products are a security threat, and could be used by Chinese authorities to spy on telecom networks — though it has yet to produce supporting evidence. Washington has pushed wireless carriers to avoid using the company’s equipment, and urged other countries to follow suit.The lawsuit will force Washington to show its hand. “The U.S. Congress has repeatedly failed to produce any evidence to support its restrictions on Huawei products,” Guo Ping, Huawei’s rotating chairman, said in a statement.Huawei also claims it’s being unfairly singled out in an unconstitutional bill of attainder — where legislation singles out a person or entity for punishment without trial. Mr. Guo said that Congress was acting as “judge, jury and executioner.”But the strategy is risky. Its business practices and relationship with Beijing will be put under the microscope. And legal experts say the lawsuit on its own is unlikely to succeed: The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab lost a similar lawsuit two years ago.Federal regulators plan to roll back regulations on the country’s largest banks and financial firms, making it easier for them to gain approval to raise dividends or buy back their shares.The Fed will reboot its “stress tests” that banks undergo each year. In particular, the Fed won’t give “pass” or “fail” grades for the portion of the tests that measure banks’ ability to keep lending during an economic crisis.Big non-bank firms will also get an easier ride. A federal oversight panel will scrap the “systemically important financial institution” designation, which subjects non-bank firms like insurers and asset managers to intrusive oversight. (It’s largely symbolic: Only four firms had been labeled systemically important and all have successfully argued to shed that status.)This is part of the Trump administration’s effort to relax financial regulations imposed in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Officials have sided with the banking industry in arguing that Obama-era rules stifled lenders’ ability to make loans and continue to grow.But critics say it’s risky, and could lead to a less safe, less transparent financial system. Dennis Kelleher of Better Markets, a financial industry watchdog, told the NYT, “The markets are not going to have the full picture.”President Trump’s aggressive fights over trade are driven by a desire to narrow America’s trade deficit, which he sees as a sign of partners taking advantage of the U.S. But the gap between imports and exports has actually widened, leaving the U.S. with a record trade deficit of $891.3 billion, Jim Tankersley and Ana Swanson of the NYT write:• “The increase was driven by some factors outside Mr. Trump’s control, like a global economic slowdown and the relative strength of the United States dollar, both of which weakened overseas demand for American goods.”• “But the widening gap was also exacerbated by Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut,” they add, “and the trade war he escalated last year.”• “Economists have long warned that Mr. Trump’s tax cuts would ultimately exacerbate a trade deficit he has vowed to reduce, as Americans, flush with extra cash, bought more imported goods.”• “By his own metric, the president is failing to right America’s global trading relationships.”But economists aren’t panicking. “I’d rather live in a country that capital is trying to get into, rather than get out of,” Larry Summers, who led the National Economic Council under President Barack Obama, told the NYT. “The reason we have a trade deficit is people are investing in America.”Officials in Brussels have reportedly asked Prime Minister Theresa May to offer new proposals that would convince British lawmakers to back her Brexit deal within the next 48 hours, the BBC reports.“E.U. officials said they would work nonstop over the weekend if ‘acceptable’ ideas were received by Friday to break the deadlock” over issues tied to the Irish border, which have been the main sticking point, according to the broadcaster.But the U.K. has said it already put up “reasonable” proposals to satisfy lawmaker’s concerns about being tied to E.U. rules. (That said, Mrs. May has reportedly outlined steps “to develop technology to keep the Irish border open after Brexit” in the event of no deal, Bloomberg reports.)Unsurprisingly, the E.U. is pessimistic. “There’s increasing concern on the European side that any concessions the bloc would be prepared to give wouldn’t be sufficient to win a majority in the House of Commons,” according to Bloomberg, citing unidentified sources.More: Toyota says it might stop manufacturing cars in Britain in the event of a no-deal Brexit. And the O.E.C.D. has warned that a no-deal departure could cause a recession in the country.The Financial Stability Board will examine whether the $1.4 billion market for leveraged loans — those made to companies with low credit ratings or high debt loads — poses a risk to the global markets, Sam Fleming of the FT reports.• The F.S.B. will focus on collateralized loan obligations, which are bundles of leveraged loans that are sold off in tranches. The regulator “wants to identify the holders of C.L.O.s around the world and assess the risks that investors could pull money from exposed institutions during a severe downturn,” the FT writes.• Investors in C.L.O.s include banks, investment funds and insurers.• Randy Quarles, the chairman of the F.S.B., told the FT, “From a financial stability risk [point of view] we need to know more about that than we do, and we have set up a process at the F.S.B. to understand that.”• “Companies have been amassing cheap loans thanks to low interest rates and loosening lending standards, and in the U.S. nonfinancial corporate debt is now a higher share of gross domestic product than before the crisis,” Mr. Fleming writes.AT&T is rushing to overhaul HBO, and the rest of what was Time Warner, to fight back against Netflix. But Bloomberg Businessweek has taken a look at how the “Game of Thrones” network and its parent company missed opportunities to dominate the streaming wars in the past:• In 1999, HBO’s chief information officer, Michael Gabriel, asked Jeff Bewkes, then the network’s C.E.O., how he wanted to reckon with the internet. “Bewkes wanted HBO to be all in on the internet when the time was right, Gabriel says, but he didn’t want to spend too much money or be premature,” Businessweek reports.• In 2007, “An idea spread through HBO: What if Time Warner bought Netflix? It would be the perfect marriage of art and science and give Time Warner enormous leverage over the downstream markets for TV shows and movies. The concept made its way up the chain of command, where it was duly slain.”• “In a December 2010 New York Times interview, Bewkes, who by then was overseeing all of Time Warner as C.E.O., weighed in on his competitor. ‘It’s a little bit like, Is the Albanian army going to take over the world?’ he said. ‘I don’t think so.’ ”• In the spring of 2014, HBO licensed its older shows to Amazon’s streaming service, giving the network fat fees. But, Businessweek reports, HBO’s in-house streaming team was upset at the arrangement. “Training people to go to Amazon Prime Video to watch classic HBO shows, they worried, could undermine the appeal of HBO’s own internet offerings.”• “HBO still doesn’t have much control over a key aspect of the direct-to-consumer streaming experience — the consumer.”Mike Turner will resign as a director of Barclays.The law firm Sullivan & Cromwell has hired James Bromley from Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton as a partner and co-head of its global restructuring group.Anne Dinning rejoined D.E. Shaw as a member of the hedge fund’s executive committee.Slate hired Jared Hohlt from New York magazine as its new editor in chief, succeeding Julia Turner.Deals• Aon won’t make a takeover bid for a rival insurance broker, Willis Towers Watson. (FT)• Sprint and T-Mobile have reportedly won the backing of the White House for their proposed merger, but have yet to win over the Justice Department or the F.C.C. (Fox Business)• Blackstone is reportedly close to raising $20 billion for its next big private equity fund. (Bloomberg)• Mario Batali has sold his stake in his restaurant empire to his business partners. (NYT)Politics and policy• Michael Cohen is said to have given the House Intelligence Committee evidence that shows President Trump’s lawyers made changes to a knowingly false written statement given to Congress. (NYT)• A House committee voted to advance a bill that would raise the federal minimum wage to $15 by 2024. (Axios)• Senator Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, says he’s writing legislation that could prevent corporate insiders from selling shares within a certain time period after their companies announce a stock buyback. (CNBC)Tech• Congressional Democrats announced bills that would reinstate net neutrality rules. (Verge)• Facebook might be backing away from its plans to expand into China. (BuzzFeed News)• Just how likely to succeed is Tesla’s new online-only sales strategy? Also: The automaker is facing backlash in China from customers who won’t receive refunds to make up for new price cuts. (NYT, WSJ)• Amazon is closing its pop-up stores in the U.S., though it still has ambitious plans for physical retail. (NYT)Best of the rest• Meet Haven, the health care joint venture of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase. (NYT)• The Fed says that the government shutdown slowed economic activity in some regions. (WSJ)• Carlos Ghosn is out of jail. What happens now? (NYT)• A ranking of the most visible brands in the U.S. placed the government bottom. (Axios)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Jamie CondliffeEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi. I’m Jamie Condliffe; greetings from London. Here’s a look at the week’s tech news.You can’t have missed it: Facebook plans to shift people toward private messaging and away from the public broadcasting on which its business was built. Think encrypted communications among smaller groups of people, and ephemeral messages that can be deleted. In theory, that change could help the company overcome some of the problems it has faced.But Facebook has promised privacy features before that have never appeared — something skeptics were quick to point out after the plan was revealed on Thursday.“I understand that many people don’t think Facebook can or would even want to build this kind of privacy-focused platform,” Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, wrote in a 3,200-word manifesto describing the shift.If we are to assume he means it, there’s still a huge problem: He lacks a business model.A shift to a private Facebook would crimp its current revenue streams. Most of its profits come from targeted ads enabled by the open sharing of content. In the encrypted future that Mr. Zuckerberg imagines, that will be hard. The company would also effectively rule out expansion into big potential markets like Russia and China, because it won’t run servers in countries with authoritarian governments.So how can it make money? Mr. Zuckerberg mentions commerce and payments, which fits with reports that Facebook is building a cryptocurrency. But that’s all he says, really.Mr. Zuckerberg seems O.K. with the lack of a plan. “The basic way that we’ve approached things is first to focus on building the consumer service that people really want,” he said to Wired. “That will be the foundation. If we do that well, the business will be fine.”Of course, a trick for monetizing private messaging may be hidden in his back pocket. If it isn’t, his critics’ skepticism may be proved right.Earlier in the week, Representative David Cicilline, the Rhode Island Democrat who leads the House antitrust subcommittee, proposed an idea to curb Big Tech’s dominance.During the Great Depression, the Glass-Steagall Act forced banks to separate commercial and investment banking operations. Mr. Cicilline told the Financial Times that something similar could apply to tech.“It’s an interesting idea whether there would be a way to think about separating what platforms do versus people who are selling products and information,” he said.Sadly, this feels like a nonstarter. Splitting the operations of banks was relatively straightforward; the data sales and platform components of companies like Google and Facebook are (whatever Mr. Zuckerberg says) deeply intertwined.Still, it’s probably one of many options. “There aren’t easy answers” to Big Tech antitrust questions, Mr. Cicilline said to Bloomberg Opinion in January. “We’re not going to approach this, like, ‘Here’s my solution.’”He has the wind at his back. Congressional hearings with Facebook and others last year revealed that lawmakers in both parties have antitrust concerns about tech companies. And the Federal Trade Commission recently announced a task force of 17 lawyers dedicated to “monitoring competition in U.S. technology markets.” The commission’s director of competition, Bruce Hoffman, said some companies could be forced to “spin off” previous acquisitions.How far these efforts will go — and how quickly — remains unclear. It may be difficult to prove violation of federal antitrust law until the laws are updated to better apply to technology companies. And splitting a company like Facebook or Google would require costly, lengthy legal battles that the government may yet balk at.Arizona prosecutors said Tuesday that they wouldn’t charge Uber with a crime after one of its autonomous cars hit and killed a pedestrian last year. Instead, they said investigators should look into what the safety driver “would or should have seen that night.”One interesting point about the news was raised by Frank Douma, a researcher at the University of Minnesota’s Center for Transportation Studies:“It’s a very conventional way of thinking to say we can expect and we should expect people to sit and monitor technology that is otherwise doing all the decision-making.”The “handoff problem” — that humans are too easily distracted to safely retake control of an autonomous vehicle in an emergency — is well documented. The Uber accident provided a first glimpse of how the law would deal with that issue. It suggests that, for now, the onus remains on the “driver.”The Chinese telecom giant Huawei sued the United States government on Wednesday over a ban that prevents government agencies from using the company’s products because they may violate national security. Days earlier, Meng Wanzhou, the company’s chief financial officer, sued the Canadian authorities for arresting her.Huawei is aggrieved by the Trump administration’s hardware ban and its lobbying of other governments to shun the company’s products when building 5G wireless data networks. The lawsuits are just one response: A defensive advertising campaign and outspoken interviews were already in play.Those more conventional lobbying approaches may have been working: Countries like Britain and Germany, which have considered the White House’s pleas, have wavered and may ultimately use Huawei hardware.But the lawsuits make Huawei look rash and aggressive. Is that the kind of company a government wants to help build critical infrastructure?The National Security Agency stopped its controversial phone spying. The system, which analyzed logs of Americans’ domestic calls and texts and was introduced to surveil conspirators in Al Qaeda, has been scrapped.Google said it was paying male workers too little. It gave $9.7 million in additional compensation to level things up for 10,677 employees, about 69 percent of them men. But the survey that led to the raises did not address a critical question: Are women hired at a pay grade below their qualifications?Net neutrality is back in Washington. Congressional Democrats announced bills that seek to reinstate net neutrality rules. Whether the bills can pass is another matter.Chinese hackers hit universities. An elaborate set of attacks sought to steal research about military maritime technology.Artificial intelligence cameras can spot shoplifters before they steal. Software can identify “restlessness and other potentially suspicious body language,” according to Bloomberg. You don’t know data overload. Gizmodo invites you to meet the digital hoarders who collect “terabytes of text files.”Jamie Condliffe is editor of the DealBook newsletter. Follow him on Twitter here: @jme_c.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe messaging platform figured out the value of privacy a long time ago.By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. If you want to know why Mark Zuckerberg is suddenly so interested in privacy, I have one word for you: data.“Mark makes decisions based on data and not values,” a person familiar with Facebook’s inner workings said when I asked about the chief executive’s stunning about-face this week on the new trajectory of the social media industry he pretty much founded.I would bet a lot that Mr. Zuckerberg saw the data I have seen that shows that the future is not looking good for the bloated, oversharing, fake-news-spewing, Russian-infected big blue app that made him both rich and powerful and, now, quite vulnerable.[Kara Swisher answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]And what do those numbers say? Well, first and foremost that social media is in big trouble with the young and that it is long past time for it to shift to a privacy-oriented stance that was never part of its DNA, except perhaps as a throwaway line in a news release.While Facebook has always insisted otherwise, its commitment to protecting the information of users has been weak at best since its very founding. But now Mr. Zuckerberg has written a blog post — with not one single trace of irony and with nary a mention of the many privacy abuses he has presided over — announcing that the company would be betting big on private messaging and protected communications for its billions of users.You know, like Snapchat, but on a Facebook scale.Over the years, Facebook has swiped many nifty ideas from Snapchat, the ephemeral messaging platform — which Mr. Zuckerberg actually tried to buy many years ago when it was still a start-up. That has been especially true at the Facebook-owned Instagram, which did a wholesale shoplift of Snapchat’s Stories by creating … wait for it … Instagram Stories!In a podcast interview with me, the Instagram co-founder and former chief executive Kevin Systrom did not even bother to hide the act. He said that he admired the creativity of Evan Spiegel, the Snapchat founder, and that taking a good idea and making it better was a thing that always happened in tech. He compared the Stories feature to a car radio that Instagram had simply improved on. Indeed it did, and it has been a huge hit for Facebook.That’s fair enough, I guess. But this time Mr. Zuckerberg is pilfering so much more, sketching out a future business that looks a lot like Snapchat, with a little bit like China’s WeChat mixed in. And, mostly, not at all like Facebook.The big takeaway is that the penny has finally dropped with Mr. Zuckerberg that messaging and social media are very different to users, as much as he has tried to force them into an unholy mush.All you would have to do to figure that out is ask my 16-year-old. But I recently saw some internal Snapchat data that drove this message home using data from both Snapchat and Facebook Ad Managers. It showed that Snapchat ads reach more 13- to 24-year-olds in the United States than ads on Facebook, Instagram and Messenger combined. Among 13- to 17-year-olds, the delta is even wider.Even if those are Snapchat stats, it is clear that the young demographic that Facebook covets doesn’t much care about public sharing via posting. If it did, would Mr. Zuckerberg have seen the need to make this announcement? He would not, since the ad-heavy Facebook bulletin board is still a huge moneymaker, and it’s much harder to make such scratch from a business focused on private messaging.That has been one of the problems of Snapchat, which is much smaller than Facebook — as well as internal missteps caused by a rotating series of managers and strategies.But Mr. Spiegel’s idea — that people care a lot about privacy and don’t want the information they upload to be sold like a Christmas pig — remains a stellar one. Ironically, Mr. Zuckerberg may turn out to be the one who can make it profitable.So indulge me for a minute with a comparison: Mr. Zuckerberg is to Bill Gates as Mr. Spiegel is to Steve Jobs.Mr. Jobs always had better ideas and vision than Mr. Gates. But Apple spent a long time in dire straits while he pushed his high-level concepts about security, privacy, and design and simplicity.Mr. Gates, on the other hand, was an unqualified genius at business models and systems, and he clearly understood the depressing truth that good enough was good enough for a lot of consumers. Of course, Mr. Jobs’s stunning creativity eventually won out, with the advent of the iPod, which was soon followed by the iPhone, and, well, the rest is history. Mr. Gates and his No. 2 at Microsoft, Steve Ballmer, scoffed at the efforts of Apple before trying to backpedal furiously. It did not work.Remember the Microsoft Zune? Me neither.In a podcast interview last year, Mr. Zuckerberg name-checked Mr. Gates as an important mentor, and he has obviously learned well. He has already shown a talent for turnarounds, shifting the company from desktop to mobile in one of the most impressive management moves in tech history. While he stumbled at first by doing a Facebook phone (I don’t remember that either!), the deft Mr. Zuckerberg quickly recovered and the company has never looked back.And now this, a chance to leave behind all the headaches that come with running an enormous public platform. As I have said before, Facebook is like a megapolis, presided over by Mr. Zuckerberg. Managing it is hard, because it needs a strong police force and competent people to pick up the garbage and working sewers, and there are bad people all over the place. While the growth of this city, let’s call it ZuckTown, has been impressive, it has also been sloppily managed in ways that have hurt society.Maybe the Facebook of the future will be different. That could be a very good thing for the world, and I’m glad that Mr. Zuckerberg seems to have decided that the map laid out by Snapchat is the one to go with — even if he didn’t give Snapchat any credit for it. One person I spoke with likened Mr. Zuckerberg to a captain who has decided not to go down with a ship that has sprung some serious leaks: “He’s just going to jump to another ship rather than fix the first one. And keep on going.”I guess there is not much else to say but: Godspeed, Mark.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily FlitterA group of San Francisco Bay Area philanthropists has pledged to spend half a billion dollars to protect and expand affordable housing in the region, according to an announcement on Thursday. A central player in the project is the philanthropy founded by Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan.The effort, called the Partnership for the Bay’s Future, is meant to combat the dizzying ascent of home prices that has run parallel with Silicon Valley’s latest expansion. In November, the median sale price for a home in the Bay Area was $815,000, according to the research firm CoreLogic.The money will seed an investment fund that will work to preserve housing for 175,000 families and add capacity for 8,000 new homes over the next decade through loans and other assistance to community groups. A separate $40 million fund will make grants to local governments and other groups trying to devise policies to protect affordable housing on a large scale.In a news release announcing the partnership, California’s governor, Gavin Newsom, called the move a “bold action.” Mr. Newsom, who has criticized tech companies for not doing enough to help solve a problem they are widely believed to have exacerbated, praised the project’s collaboration of private companies, nonprofits, government agencies and community leaders.Morgan Stanley, Kaiser Permanente, Facebook and Genentech are also contributing to the partnership. But the role that any one company will play is small compared with Microsoft’s pledge last week  to spend $500 million toward affordable housing in the Seattle area.The Bay Area fund’s participants, which include the Ford Foundation and the family charities of the two founders of Hewlett-Packard, say they have raised $260 million so far. The news release said they would “continue to engage new partners and funders.”The question of what the tech industry should do to ease housing crises in tech hubs has roiled Bay Area politics in recent years. In November, after a contentious battle between billionaires for and against the measure, San Francisco voters approved a ballot initiative to raise taxes on big businesses to help increase the city’s budget for homeless services.The city’s middle class has already confronted dislocation. Recently, some people working at places like schools, bookstores and restaurants began moving into dormitories.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Tom BissellZUCKED Waking Up to the Facebook CatastropheBy Roger McNameeThe dystopia George Orwell conjured up in “1984” wasn’t a prediction. It was, instead, a reflection. Newspeak, the Ministry of Truth, the Inner Party, the Outer Party — that novel sampled and remixed a reality that Nazi and Soviet totalitarianism had already made apparent. Scary stuff, certainly, but maybe the more frightening dystopia is the one no one warned you about, the one you wake up one morning to realize you’re living inside.Roger McNamee, an esteemed venture capitalist, would appear to agree. “A dystopian technology future overran our lives before we were ready,” he writes in “Zucked.” Think that sounds like overstatement? Let’s examine the evidence. At its peak the planet’s fourth most valuable company, and arguably its most influential, is controlled almost entirely by a young man with the charisma of a geometry T.A. The totality of this man’s professional life has been running this company, which calls itself “a platform.” Company, platform — whatever it is, it provides a curious service wherein billions of people fill it with content: baby photos, birthday wishes, concert promotions, psychotic premonitions of Jewish lizard-men. No one is paid by the company for this labor; on the contrary, users are rewarded by being tracked across the web, even when logged out, and consequently strip-mined by a complicated artificial intelligence trained to sort surveilled information into approximately 29,000 predictive data points, which are then made available to advertisers and other third parties, who now know everything that can be known about a person without trepanning her skull. Amazingly, none of this is secret, despite the company’s best efforts to keep it so. Somehow, people still use and love this platform.Hostile foreign intelligence services also love this platform, if only because its users have proved shockingly vulnerable to social manipulation — a dark art the company itself has admitted to dabbling in. In 2014, the company set out to learn whether it could make its users sad and angry on purpose. It learned it could. When this astonishing breach of user trust became public, the company claimed it wasn’t a big deal, that many companies did similar things. It was, and they don’t.A tech company founded on creating human connection is now ripping American society apart and compromising our civic foundation, though not because it has overtly wicked intent. As McNamee elucidates, our “democracy has been undermined because of design choices.” Choices including the platform’s pleasurable, frictionless interface, which encourages users to stay and return. It’s no stretch to posit that because human neurotransmitters respond to the platform’s iconic use of a certain shade of blue, and spark with dopamine upon receiving a “like” or “tag” notification, desperate children are now living in cages and a raving madman occupies the Oval Office. Not even Orwell, after a feast of psilocybin, could have predicted this dystopia. This one’s all ours.For any aliens or recently arrived time travelers reading this, the company in question is Facebook, and its young leader Mark Zuckerberg, with whom McNamee has such a long and familiar relationship so as to refer to him throughout by his diminutive, Zuck. In 2006, McNamee writes, he counseled the 22-year-old C.E.O. against selling Facebook to Yahoo for a billion dollars. “I don’t want to disappoint everyone,” Zuckerberg said. McNamee urged him to look beyond that and “keep Facebook independent.” Zuck heeded McNamee’s advice, and here we are.McNamee also profited from this mentorship. Along with his venture capital firm, Elevation Partners, the author made a fortune off an early investment in Zuckerberg’s company, a subject about which he is now suitably circumspect, given his belief that Facebook, along with Google and other tech giants, today represents “the greatest threat to the global order in my lifetime.” A self-identified “capitalist,” McNamee currently advocates breaking up Facebook’s data monopoly by force, and heavily regulating its appalling business practices. “Zucked” is thus a candid and highly entertaining explanation of how and why a man who spent decades picking tech winners and cheering his industry on has been carried to the shore of social activism.McNamee saves his most conspicuous outrage for Facebook’s amoral leadership at the hands of not just Zuckerberg but also his chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, whom McNamee recommended Zuck hire before she could take a job at The Washington Post. McNamee describes their grip on the company as “the most centralized decision-making structure I have ever encountered in a large company.” Their power dyad is possible only because Facebook’s “core platform,” as McNamee puts it, is relatively simple: It “consists of a product and a monetization scheme.” Non-tech companies with comparable global reach (Coca-Cola, Exxon) must deal with complex real-world infrastructure issues as well as the needs of a highly diverse work force. Large corporations also typically create interrelated eddies of economic activity, whereas Facebook’s business model is founded upon sucking the economic activity out of otherwise productive workers. Most troubling of all, a company whose product is used by one-third of the planet has only 30,000 employees. In every imaginable sense, Facebook is a Borg-like drain on the world’s economy. It doesn’t make you better and likely makes you worse. Unlike Exxon, it can’t even get you to Albuquerque.The story of Facebook has been told many times before, but McNamee does a superb job of contextualizing its rise within the proper technological history. Without the advents of the iPhone, cloud data storage and the industry’s “lean start-up” model, Facebook may well have wandered down the bleak path of the short-lived early-2000s social media entities Myspace and Friendster. McNamee also takes care to remind the reader of the telltale heart (or lack thereof) beating beneath the floorboards of Facebook headquarters: Its first iteration, Facemash, invited Harvard students to compare photos of female classmates — photos Zuckerberg stole from online student housing directories — for the high cause of determining who was hotter. Yes, the world’s fourth most valuable company can trace its origins to the frustrated misogyny of an ur-incel. The moral vacuousness Zuckerberg displayed as a young adult should have told us something about how he and many other young “disrupters” intended to operate. As McNamee writes, “You can imagine how attractive a philosophy that absolves practitioners of responsibility for the impact of their actions on others would be to entrepreneurs and investors in Silicon Valley.”The most stirring parts of the book are those in which McNamee makes the angry but measured argument that “social media has enabled personal views that had previously been kept in check by social pressure.” The kook we will always have with us, to paraphrase Jesus, but the kooks of yore had to work to maintain their kookery and locate fellow kooks. They had to pick up their kook phone, subscribe to the kook newsletter, drive to the kook convention. Nowadays, all the kook has to do is log in to Facebook, where his feed will be enlivened by the chatter of fellow — and likely more extreme — kooks, toward which Facebook’s algorithms helpfully steer him. Zuckerberg et al. probably didn’t set out to transform American neo-Nazism into this generation’s punk rock, but the platforms they created have generated “a feedback loop that reinforces and amplifies ideas with a speed and at a scale that are unprecedented.”McNamee’s book is not merely the cri de coeur of a forsworn tech optimist zinged by moral conscience. It’s also a robust and helpful itemization of the ways Facebook could be brought to heel. McNamee clearly believes the company can be made into something more benign, and perhaps even socially beneficial. That may or may not be true, but the damage it has already done is not precisely containable. Considering the high likelihood that Russian activity on Facebook may have tipped the 2016 election to Donald Trump, the damage is already of generational measure.But here’s the bizarre quirk of the Facebook dystopia, whose sheer perversity would have likely pleased Orwell: It’s all Big and no Brother. Our time and lives are the company’s only currency. Without our continued attention, Facebook quite literally has nothing, and its empire could be brought down with a feather. Now, blow.Tom Bissell is the author, most recently, of “Apostle.”ZUCKED Waking Up to the Facebook Catastrophe By Roger McNamee 336 pp. Penguin Press. $28Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhy I am calling on the Federal Trade Commission to investigate Facebook for violating antitrust laws.By David N. CicillineMr. Cicilline, a member of the House of Representatives from Rhode Island, is chairman of the House Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial and Administrative Law.A year ago, the world learned that Facebook allowed a political consulting company called Cambridge Analytica to exploit the personal information of up to 87 million users, to obtain data that would help the company’s clients “fight a culture war” in America.Since then, a torrent of reports has revealed that the Cambridge Analytica scandal was part of a much broader pattern of misconduct by Facebook.It has paid teenagers to spy on their behavior, even asking users “to screenshot their Amazon order history page,” according to the website TechCrunch. The company has secretly collected highly sensitive data through the back doors of other apps, such as ovulation trackers, to target ads at users “even if no Facebook account is used to log in and if the end user isn’t a Facebook member,” The Wall Street Journal reported. And in its pursuit of dominance, Facebook gave at least 60 device makers direct access to its users’ data. Those actions are under criminal investigation, The Times reported last week. Facebook has also engaged in campaigns to obstruct congressional oversight and to smear and discredit critics — tactics reminiscent of the big tobacco playbook.After each misdeed becomes public, Facebook alternates between denial, hollow promises and apology campaigns.But nothing changes. That’s why, as chairman of the House Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial and Administrative Law, I am calling for an investigation into whether Facebook’s conduct has violated antitrust laws.Since the Cambridge Analytica scandal, the Federal Trade Commission has confirmed that it is investigating Facebook to determine whether it violated a consent order it entered into with the commission in 2011. While we await the outcome of the commission’s investigation, other enforcement agencies and government authorities have already taken action. The attorney general for the District of Columbia filed a complaint months ago. German antitrust authorities issued an order finding that Facebook abused its dominance and limiting Facebook’s data collection practices. And an investigation by the British Parliament compared Facebook to a company of “digital gangsters” that considers itself “ahead of and beyond the law.”The F.T.C. is facing a massive credibility crisis.For years, privacy advocates have alerted the commission that Facebook was likely violating its commitments under the agreement. Not only did the commission fail to enforce its order, but by failing to block Facebook’s acquisition of WhatsApp and Instagram, it enabled Facebook to extend its dominance.How the commission chooses to respond to Facebook’s repeated abuses will determine whether it is willing or able to promote competition and protect consumers. If the commission does conclude that Facebook has violated the consent order, how it fixes this problem through a legal remedy will be a test of its effectiveness. The commission has the authority to impose substantial fines on Facebook. Given that the corporation had more than $55 billion in revenue in 2018 alone, even a fine in the low billions of dollars will amount to a slap on the wrist, a mere cost of doing business.Moreover, because Facebook is a repeat offender, it is critical that the commission’s response is strong enough to prevent future violations. America’s laws are not suggestions. When a company has repeatedly shown contempt for its legal commitments, the remedy must change how the company operates. Enforcement agencies can do this through deep reforms of the company’s structure. This includes removing members of the company’s board, or even top executives, along with other changes to the company’s business model to address dysfunction at the top.The F.T.C. can also pursue other ways to fix this problem. For example, after German antitrust enforcers found that Facebook abused its dominant market position, it required Facebook to stop combining different sources of its users’ data without their consent.But the commission should not stop there. There is also mounting evidence of anticompetitive conduct by Facebook that may warrant scrutiny by federal antitrust enforcers. For example, the social media goliath has reportedly systematically spied on its rivals, giving it valuable information on how people used competitive products.Facebook’s predatory acquisition strategy has also arguably resulted in fewer innovative services. When it bought TBH, a polling app popular with teenagers, Facebook announced that the app would still operate independently and under its own brand. Less than a year later, Facebook scuttled it due to “low usage.”Facebook also appears to have used its dominance to cripple other competitive threats by cutting them off from its massive network. In 2013, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, personally approved the company’s decision to block Vine, a fast-growing rival, from a critical Facebook feature, to the advantage of its own online video service.Finally, in what looks to be a dangerous power grab to head off antitrust action, Facebook recently announced plans to merge Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook into one integrated product, furthering its monopoly power.Together, these reports suggest a disturbing pattern of anticompetitive conduct. Watchdogs and consumers alike report that the quality of Facebook’s products has declined. It has killed innovation and eliminated competitive threats. And the price for advertising on the platform has continued to rise.In other words, there is a smoking gun.American antitrust agencies have not pursued a significant monopoly case in more than two decades, even as corporate concentration and monopoly power have reached historic levels.It’s clear that serious enforcement is long overdue.David N. Cicilline, a member of the House of Representatives, is chairman of the House Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial and Administrative Law. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhen the Chinese government blocks foreign internet companies for political reasons, the United States should treat the tactic as the anticompetitive economic strategy that it is.By Tim WuMr. Wu is a law professor who specializes in technology.As China and the United States engage in high-level negotiations over a possible trade deal, it’s puzzling to see what’s been left off the table: the Chinese internet market. China blocks or hinders nearly every important foreign competitor online, including Google, Facebook, Wikipedia in Chinese, Pinterest, Line (the major Japanese messaging company), Reddit and The New York Times. Even Peppa Pig, a British cartoon character and internet video sensation, has been censored on and off; an editorial in the Communist Party’s official People’s Daily newspaper once warned that she could “destroy children’s youth.”China has long defended its censorship as a political matter, a legitimate attempt to protect citizens from what the government regards as “harmful information,” including material that “spreads unhealthy lifestyles and pop culture.” But you don’t need to be a trade theorist to realize that the censorship is also an extremely effective barrier to international trade. The global internet economy is worth at least $8 trillion and growing, yet the Trump administration has focused chiefly on manufacturing, technology transfers and agriculture, and does not seem to have pressed for concessions on this issue.Sheltered from American, Japanese and European competition, Chinese internet businesses have grown enormously over the past decade. Nine of the world’s 20 largest internet firms, by market value, are now Chinese. Some of this growth reflects the skill and innovation of Chinese engineers, a vibrant start-up culture and the success of Chinese business in catering to local tastes. But it’s hard to believe that this has been unaided by censorship.And the barriers to foreign competition have more than just economic effects. Without any better options, Chinese users are forced to put up with companies like Tencent, which owns the private messaging app WeChat, and the online payment company Ant Financial, whose privacy violations are, amazingly, even more troubling than those of Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. By tolerating Chinese censorship, the United States encourages other countries to do the same.When it joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, China agreed to a broad liberalization of trade in services, including data processing and telecommunications. China’s internet policies must be understood as a violation of these commitments. China will presumably counter that its internet policies are “necessary to protect public morals or to maintain public order,” invoking the relevant exception to the World Trade Organization’s rules. But while that exception might justify bans on gambling sites or even Peppa Pig, in the case of most of China’s internet barriers the real purpose seems to be the protection of homegrown business interests.Why is the United States not demanding change? It’s not as if we lack leverage. Chinese firms like Tencent and the online retailer JD.com have aggressively pursued operations in the United States, seeking to take advantage of our open internet and open market. The Office of the United States Trade Representative even cited Chinese internet blocking as a trade barrier in 2016. Why allow a country to do business here if it won’t let us do business there? The basic principle of trade policy is reciprocity: Lower your barriers and we’ll lower ours. When it comes to the internet economy, the United States has unilaterally disarmed and is being played for a fool.Particularly baffling is the attitude of the major American internet firms, the victims of China’s internet trade policy, whose strategy has largely been one of appeasement. Google did retreat from the Chinese market in 2010 because of concerns about censorship and industrial espionage, and it did complain for a while about Chinese obstructions. Yet last year we learned that Google was effectively giving up the fight, building a censored search engine for the Chinese market and begging for access. Also disappointing has been Facebook’s approach. Even though Facebook has been banned in China for years, Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, has made embarrassing efforts to ingratiate himself with China’s president, Xi Jinping. (At one point gossip pages even reported that Mr. Zuckerberg asked, in vain, for Mr. Xi to give an honorary Chinese name to his unborn child; Mr. Zuckerberg denied that this happened.)Appeasement does not make effective foreign policy or trade policy. The United States, with the world’s largest economy and its most important internet sector, should be negotiating from a position of strength. If the Trump administration wants to be tough with China on trade, it should demand meaningful access to the Chinese internet market, on pain of denial of access to American markets for Chinese firms.That is how trade negotiation has always proceeded, and the internet ought to be no exception. We otherwise run the risk of winning the battle for the past while surrendering the battle for the future.Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, a contributing opinion writer and the author of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Federal regulators are reportedly considering seeking some kind of oversight of Mark Zuckerberg's leadership of Facebook over the social network giant's mishandling of users' personal information.Discussions between Facebook and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission officials about its data-handing lapses have touched on holding the CEO personally accountable, The Washington Post reported Friday. Zuckerberg controls a majority of Facebook's voting stock and has run the company since starting it at Harvard in 2004.The Post quoted two anonymous sources familiar with the discussions. It said putting restraints on Zuckerberg could send a message to other tech giants that the FTC could hold their executives accountable for privacy misdeeds.The FTC had no comment and Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The commission opened an investigation into Facebook last year after revelations that data mining firm Cambridge Analytica had gathered details on as many as 87 million Facebook users without their permission.The FTC has been examining whether that massive breakdown violated a settlement that Facebook reached in 2011 after government regulators concluded the Menlo Park, California, company had repeatedly broken its privacy promises to users, who now number 2.3 billion globally.The FTC decree, which runs through 2031, requires that Facebook get its users' consent to share their personal information in ways that aren't allowed by their privacy settings.The Post previously reported the FTC is considering hitting Facebook with a multibillion-dollar fine. That would top its previous record fine of $22.5 million, which it dealt to Google in 2012 for bypassing the privacy controls in Apple's Safari browser.Facebook has in the past year been buffeted by media coverage highlighting what critics call a cavalier attitude toward protecting user privacy and data — and in failing to prevent the dissemination of hate speech and misinformation on the biggest communications medium in history.On Thursday, its Instagram subsidiary said in a blog post that millions more users were affected by a password security lapse than Facebook acknowledged when announcing the problem nearly four weeks ago.In the initial announcement it had said tens of thousands of passwords were stored on the site in plain text, meaning company employees could search them.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew RosenbergWASHINGTON — The academic who helped Cambridge Analytica vacuum up private information from tens of millions of Facebook profiles sued the social media giant on Friday, arguing that the company defamed him when it claimed he had lied about how the data was going to be used.Since the full scope of Cambridge Analytica’s data mining was revealed last year, Facebook has repeatedly tried to shift blame for the privacy breach onto the academic, Aleksandr Kogan. Facebook executives — including the chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg — have said Mr. Kogan told Facebook that the data was for academic purposes when it was being collected for use in political campaigns.Mr. Kogan, 32, a former psychology professor, used a quiz app to collect the data, and has insisted that the fine print accompanying his app said the information could be used commercially. That was an outright violation of Facebook’s rules at the time, but the company does not appear to have regularly checked that apps were complying.“Alex did not lie, Alex was not a fraud, Alex did not deceive them, this was not a scam,” said Steve Cohen, a lawyer for Mr. Kogan. “Facebook knew exactly what this app was doing, or should have known. Facebook desperately needed a scapegoat, and Alex was their scapegoat.”Mr. Cohen said Mr. Kogan was not asking for any specific amount of money. “We’re going to leave that to a jury,” he said.In a statement, Liz Bourgeois, a spokeswoman for Facebook, described the action as a “frivolous lawsuit” from someone who “violated our policies and put people’s data at risk.”Cambridge Analytica was founded by Robert Mercer, a wealthy Republican donor, and Stephen K. Bannon, who would serve as an adviser to President Trump. The consulting firm rose to prominence in 2016 for its work with the Trump election campaign.The company claimed it had used Facebook data and other information to develop analytical tools that could identify the personalities of American voters and influence their behavior. Those techniques have been widely questioned.Cambridge hired Mr. Kogan as a contractor in June 2014 — the same month the company was founded — and collected the data throughout the summer by asking Facebook users to take a lengthy personality questionnaire. The quiz harvested data not only from everyone who took it, but also from all their friends.Facebook, which has since tightened its privacy protections, allowed app developers broad access to its users’ data at the time. Many were unaware their data was exposed, and Facebook was plunged into the worst crisis of its 14-year history after the scope of Cambridge Analytica’s data harvesting was revealed by The New York Times and The Observer of London.The company has since said that as many as 87 million users were affected, and it is facing investigations by federal prosecutors and regulators as a result. At least one of those investigations is being run by prosecutors from the Northern District of California, and appears to be partly focused on Facebook’s claims that it was misled by Cambridge.Federal prosecutors in New York are conducting what appears to be a separate criminal investigation into data deals Facebook struck with some of the world’s largest technology companies, including Amazon, Microsoft and Netflix. And the Federal Trade Commission, which spent the past year investigating whether Facebook violated its 2011 agreement about data privacy, is now weighing a multibillion-dollar fine against Facebook. That would be the largest such penalty ever imposed by the trade regulator.Follow Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter @AllMattNYT.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Cecilia KangWASHINGTON — The Federal Trade Commission is in the advanced stages of its investigation into whether Facebook violated privacy rules and is expected to seek large fines from the company, according to two people familiar with the inquiry.The five members of the commission met in mid-December to discuss the investigation, according to the people, who would speak only on the condition of anonymity because the investigation is not public. The meeting is a sign that the investigation is far along, the people said, because the commissioners rarely meet in the early stages of an inquiry.The investigation, which began in late March, is continuing, and the commissioners and staff have not reached a final conclusion, including how much the agency might seek in fines, the people said. Consumer-protection and enforcement staff members have provided updates on what they believe is evidence of privacy violations, but they have not submitted a final report.The commissioners would vote on any recommendations from the staff, including whether to pursue fines or other penalties. They do not always approve staff recommendations.The highest financial penalty imposed on a tech company was Google’s $22 million settlement in 2012 for privacy violations. In the December meeting, the commissioners discussed a higher fine for Facebook, the people said.The Federal Trade Commission declined to comment. Facebook, which has repeatedly defended its actions, also declined to comment.The Washington Post earlier reported about the meeting and the potential for a record fine.The investigation is seen as a litmus test of the government’s ability to protect consumers in the digital age. All five commissioners have testified to Congress that they need more resources to go up against big corporations in enforcement actions. Their agency does not have the authority to create privacy rules, but it can police businesses through a broad mandate to protect consumers from deceptive and unfair practices.The investigation into Facebook began with revelations by The New York Times that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, had obtained data from tens of millions of Facebook users without permission. The report ignited calls for investigations by global regulators and the summoning of Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, to testify before Congress last April.A consent decree from 2011 requires Facebook to seek permission from users of plans to share their data with third parties. The trade commission also requires Facebook to notify it when third parties misuse user data.Over the past nine months, enforcement and consumer-protection officials have looked into a series of additional reports by The Times and other publications that raised questions about whether Facebook’s use of data violated its consent decree, according to former officials. The expanded investigation included Facebook’s partnerships with hardware and other tech giants like Netflix and Amazon that gave other companies access to Facebook user data without explicit permission.Facebook has said Cambridge Analytica told it that the firm had deleted the data. The social network has hired scores of lawyers and privacy experts to handle the commission’s investigation, and Facebook’s top privacy officials and lawyers are in regular conversation with officials leading the investigation.For 17 months of the Trump administration, the Federal Trade Commission was run by two commissioners. In May, the new slate of commissioners arrived, all appointed by President Trump. Three members are typically from the president’s party, and two from the other party.The agency’s chairman, Joseph J. Simons, an antitrust lawyer, has declined to comment about the investigation. He has sent strict orders throughout the agency against leaking information about the inquiry to reporters.One of the people familiar with the investigation said the meeting last month, though unusual, had been called partly because three of the commissioners were new, and because the case warranted an update from enforcement and consumer-protection staff.The people said the investigation had been slowed by the government shutdown, now in its fifth week. The hallways at the agency are empty, and just the five commissioners and a smattering of other employees have arrived for work during the shutdown.Mike Isaac contributed reporting from San Francisco.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — After 18 months investigating Facebook and online misinformation, a British parliamentary committee issued a scathing report on Monday, accusing the company of breaking data privacy and competition laws and calling for new regulations to rein in the technology industry.Repeated scandals involving Facebook and other tech companies demand more government oversight, the committee concluded, including laws making internet companies legally liable for content shared on their websites.“The era of self-regulation for tech companies should come to an end,” said Damian Collins, the chairman of the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee, which published the report.The conclusions in Britain add to momentum globally for new regulations against the technology sector. Europe has been the most aggressive in taking on Silicon Valley, but a tougher approach is gaining ground in the United States, where the Federal Trade Commission is considering imposing a multibillion-dollar fine against Facebook, and lawmakers have called for new data-privacy regulations.The parliamentary report recommends the creation of a British watchdog to oversee the technology industry, similar to the country’s approach to regulating media companies. It also suggested legally requiring Facebook and other large internet platforms to remove what the government determines to be harmful content, or risk fines or other punishments.Silicon Valley has long opposed making tech companies responsible for content on their sites. The industry argues that websites like Facebook, YouTube and Twitter are simply unbiased platforms for others to share material, and that new restrictions could impede free speech.“Social media companies cannot hide behind the claim of being merely a ‘platform’ and maintain that they have no responsibility themselves in regulating the content of their sites,” the parliamentary report said.Facebook acknowledged past mistakes and said it was open to “meaningful regulation.”“While we still have more to do, we are not the same company we were a year ago,” said Karim Palant, a public policy manager for Facebook in Britain. “We have tripled the size of the team working to detect and protect users from bad content to 30,000 people and invested heavily in machine learning, artificial intelligence and computer vision technology to help prevent this type of abuse.”The blistering report concludes the committee’s work, which started as a study of how social media can be manipulated to influence elections like Britain’s 2016 vote to exit the European Union, but became a closer examination of Facebook’s business practices. The committee held several hearings related to Facebook’s relationship with Cambridge Analytica, the voter-targeting firm that gained access to 87 million Facebook users.The committee does not have lawmaking authority on its own, but Mr. Collins said in an interview that he hoped the recommendations would be incorporated into a broader review of technology regulation underway within the British government. Policymakers are debating new rules to prevent online election meddling, and the spread of hate speech and terrorist content.A British parliamentary committee would not typically cause much worry for a company of Facebook’s size, but the panel became a persistent challenge for the social media company.Mr. Collins has threatened to force Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, to testify if he ever travels to Britain. In December, the committee released a trove of secret internal emails in which Mr. Zuckerberg and other Facebook executives discussed sharing access to user data with certain companies, like Netflix and Airbnb, while cutting off others.The committee said the emails showed Facebook’s willingness to sacrifice user privacy to maximize revenue and generate more money from advertising. Without new oversight, technology companies cannot be expected to change, the report concluded.“The big tech companies must not be allowed to expand exponentially, without constraint or proper regulatory oversight,” the report said. “But only governments and the law are powerful enough to contain them.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IsaacSAN FRANCISCO — When Facebook employees woke up on Wednesday morning, many found they could not perform even the most basic work tasks.Their calendars were not working. Nor were campus maps that help people find their co-workers. They were unable to check Facebook’s latest shuttle bus schedule. And they could not see what the company’s cafeterias were serving for lunch.That’s because those features run on Facebook’s internal, custom-built iPhone apps — and Apple had shut them all down, according to nine current and former employees of the companies, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly.The situation stemmed from a dispute after Facebook violated Apple’s rules by publicly distributing a research app that allowed it to snoop on users’ online activity. When Apple discovered the transgression this week, it revoked Facebook’s special access to apps and updates that run on its iPhone software.That immediately cut off Facebook’s 35,000 workers from its internal iPhone apps. And the problem snowballed when mobile apps like Workplace and Messenger — two internal communication tools — also stopped working, frustrating employees and resulting in hours of lost productivity.Late Thursday, Apple relented and restored Facebook’s access. Yet the episode was a stark reminder of where the power really lies in the technology world. While Facebook is the world’s biggest social network, Apple controls the distribution of apps — including Facebook’s — on its phones. That power is a longstanding concern for Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder and chief executive, making his company beholden to the rules of others.The spat underscored the tensions between two of Silicon Valley’s largest tech companies, which have competed for years over talent and new technologies. Recently, each has taken potshots at the other over data privacy, with Apple’s chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, trading slights with Mr. Zuckerberg in interviews. Facebook also worked last year with a public-relations firm, Definers Public Affairs, to urge reporters to scrutinize Apple and other tech companies. And Apple has made changes to some of its tech features that limit the ability of Facebook and others to track users.Apple did not immediately have a comment on Thursday after reinstating Facebook’s access to its internal apps. In a statement, Facebook said it was “getting our internal apps up and running” and added, “To be clear, this didn’t have an impact on our consumer-facing services.”In an interview on Wednesday, Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, said of the dispute with Apple, “Obviously we want to be in full compliance with all of our partners.” She added that the Facebook research app at issue hadn’t been a secret and had been operated only with its users’ consent.Apple also briefly demonstrated its power on Thursday with another Silicon Valley giant, Google. Like Facebook, Google had violated Apple’s rules by publicly distributing an app, Screenwise Meter, through a special Apple developer program. The internet search company said some of its internal apps that run on iPhone software were temporarily disrupted.Two Google employees, who declined to be identified because they were not allowed to speak publicly on the matter, said iPhone apps for internal services like hailing a bus or viewing cafeteria information were not working. In addition, apps testing unreleased updates of Google products such as Gmail and Google Maps were unavailable, these people said. The disruptions were earlier reported by the technology website The Verge.A Google spokeswoman, Suzanne Blackburn, said in a statement that the company expected the issue to be resolved “soon.” A spokesman for Apple, Tom Neumayr, said it was working with Google to reinstate access “very quickly.” He declined to comment on whether Apple had revoked Google’s access or if it was a technical glitch.Apple’s dispute with Facebook this week was rooted in the social network’s practice of scooping up information on its users’ practices, a way for it to gain insight into their digital habits so it can improve products to keep consumers regularly coming back to its site.In 2013, Facebook acquired Onavo, an Israeli company that collected information on how customers used every app on their phones. Onavo’s findings helped Facebook executives predict which apps were rising and trending across App Stores.That gave Mr. Zuckerberg, who colleagues have said was highly dependent on the data, the foresight to try to buy Snapchat long before it went public. Although that effort failed, Facebook has built products, like live video streams and group video chat, based on information gleaned from Onavo’s app.Last year, Apple updated some of its privacy policies and forced Facebook to remove Onavo’s app from its App Store. But Onavo had other ways of collecting consumer data that bypassed some of Apple’s restrictions.In 2016, the Onavo team had created a research app that vacuumed up all of a user’s phone and web activity; Facebook paid people ages 13 to 35 to install it. Then Facebook distributed the app under an Apple program with a special approval process if apps are used only for internal testing.On Tuesday, the technology news site TechCrunch published a report detailing Facebook’s research app and its public use, which violated the rules of Apple’s program. Facebook immediately pushed back on privacy concerns and said it was not tricking users with the research app.“There was nothing ‘secret’ about this; it was literally called the Facebook Research App,” Arielle Argyres, a Facebook spokeswoman, said in a statement. “It wasn’t ‘spying’ as all of the people who signed up to participate went through a clear on-boarding process asking for their permission and were paid to participate.”She added that fewer than 5 percent of users in the research program were teenagers and that all had obtained signed parental consent forms.But Facebook had no comeback for sidestepping Apple’s rules. On Wednesday morning, Apple revoked Facebook’s “enterprise developer certificate” and paralyzed the social giant from deploying its internal iPhone apps.“Facebook has been using their membership to distribute a data-collecting app to consumers, which is a clear breach of their agreement with Apple,” Tammy Levine, an Apple spokeswoman, said at the time. “Any developer using their enterprise certificates to distribute apps to consumers will have their certificates revoked, which is what we did in this case to protect our users and their data.”Apple has been dealing with its own privacy problems. This week, a bug was discovered in its FaceTime app, whereby people could spy on the video and audio FaceTime calls of other users. Apple has pledged to fix the problem by the end of this week.After Apple’s revocation, employees inside Facebook became furious with the Onavo team, according to four people familiar with the company’s deliberations. Some said they would have to wait weeks to get app updates or changes approved through Apple’s App Store. Several employees in Facebook’s hardware division said they were considering quitting because they could not get any work done.Late Thursday, after Apple relented, Facebook employees began seeing the next day’s lunch menu again, as well as their calendars and their shuttle bus schedules. Still, they said, Apple had made its point.Follow Mike Isaac on Twitter: @MikeIsaac.Jack Nicas contributed reporting from New York, and Daisuke Wakabayashi from San Francisco.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersQUITO — A New York man charged with trying to defraud Facebook Inc founder Mark Zuckerberg is seeking asylum in Ecuador, where he was arrested in 2018 after fleeing the United States more than three years ago to avoid facing trial.An Ecuadorean court in November had authorized the extradition of wood pellet salesman Paul Ceglia, who faced U.S. charges of mail fraud and wire fraud over allegations he forged documents to extort Facebook and Zuckerberg.Paul Ceglia expressed his ""desire to receive territorial asylum from the Ecuadorean state, and there is a formal request to the Ecuadorean government,"" Ceglia's lawyer, Roberto Calderon, said in a telephone interview.Ceglia believes that he would be in danger if he was returned to the United States, the lawyer said.The Ecuadorean Foreign Ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Ceglia had sued Zuckerberg in 2010 saying he had signed a contract in 2003 while studying at Harvard University that gave him half of the planned social network site that would become Facebook.Calderon said the Ecuadorean Foreign Ministry asked the Interior Ministry to suspend his extradition to the United States until the asylum request is resolved.Ecuador on Thursday ended the asylum of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange in the country's embassy in London, leading to his arrest. (Reporting by Jose Llangari and Alexandra Valencia; editing by Grant McCool)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersQUITO — A New York man charged with trying to defraud Facebook Inc founder Mark Zuckerberg is seeking asylum in Ecuador, where he was arrested in 2018 after fleeing the United States more than three years ago to avoid facing trial.An Ecuadorean court in November had authorized the extradition of wood pellet salesman Paul Ceglia, who faced U.S. charges of mail fraud and wire fraud over allegations he forged documents to extort Facebook and Zuckerberg.Paul Ceglia expressed his ""desire to receive territorial asylum from the Ecuadorean state, and there is a formal request to the Ecuadorean government,"" Ceglia's lawyer, Roberto Calderon, said in a telephone interview.Ceglia believes that he would be in danger if he was returned to the United States, the lawyer said.The Ecuadorean Foreign Ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Ceglia had sued Zuckerberg in 2010 saying he had signed a contract in 2003 while studying at Harvard University that gave him half of the planned social network site that would become Facebook.Calderon said the Ecuadorean Foreign Ministry asked the Interior Ministry to suspend his extradition to the United States until the asylum request is resolved.Ecuador on Thursday ended the asylum of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange in the country's embassy in London, leading to his arrest. (Reporting by Jose Llangari and Alexandra Valencia; editing by Grant McCool)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Cecilia KangWASHINGTON — The Federal Trade Commission has no shortage of critics who say it cannot protect Americans from the prying eyes of Big Tech. Instead of forceful action against the likes of Facebook and Google, they say, the F.T.C. leans on rules that make it hard to impose penalties bigger than rounding errors for the companies.Those critics have an unusual champion: Joseph J. Simons, the man running the agency.“We have this over 100-year-old statute that is our main authority,” Mr. Simons said in his first sit-down interview since becoming chairman 10 months ago. “And clearly legislators who approved that were not thinking about data security and privacy issues.”In the deregulatory era of the Trump administration, Mr. Simons, 60, a Republican lawyer who has jumped between the public and private sectors for more than 30 years, is a rare voice for strengthening the government’s hand.Mr. Simons has urged Congress to expand the F.T.C.’s privacy-enforcement powers and allow it to impose fines more easily, write new rules and hire more experts. He also says the agency should police how all companies and nonprofits — not just technology companies — collect and handle people’s digital data.But none of those changes will happen before Mr. Simons must make the most anticipated decision on data privacy in the agency’s history. In the coming weeks, he and the F.T.C.’s four other commissioners are expected to conclude an investigation into whether Facebook violated its promises to protect people’s data.The outcome of the case is seen as a referendum on the government’s ability to rein in tech giants that have amassed incredible wealth and power from collecting and bartering user data.“The F.T.C.’s decision on Facebook will be highly consequential, for the F.T.C. and Facebook, for the tech industry, and for consumers,” said David Vladeck, who led consumer protection at the agency during the Obama administration. “The commission’s action will set the bar.”The case has taken on huge significance in Washington, where Facebook has become Exhibit A for an industry accused of a wide range of problems, from enabling foreign election interference to crushing competitors.A rising chorus of Republican and Democratic lawmakers has criticized the F.T.C. for not restraining the companies’ data-collection practices, which are central to some of their businesses. The agency’s biggest penalty on a tech company was a $22 million fine imposed on Google in 2012, for misrepresenting how it used some online tracking tools. Google reported $50 billion in revenue that year.On Friday, Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who is running for president, announced a sweeping plan to strengthen regulations against big tech companies.“The F.T.C. has been a disappointment with its lack of enforcement in the past, which for Facebook and Google has amounted to a slap on the wrist,” Senator Josh Hawley, a freshman Republican from Missouri, said in an interview. Mr. Hawley investigated Google for competition violations when he was a state attorney general.The Facebook investigation is focused on whether the social network violated a 2011 consent decree in which it promised to protect user data and inform users of changes in how their data was used. The inquiry started last March under Mr. Simons’s Republican predecessor, Maureen Ohlhausen, after a report in The New York Times revealed that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica had analyzed the data of 87 million users without their permission.The agency is considering imposing a multibillion-dollar fine on Facebook as well as new requirements to strengthen protections on how data is collected and shared, according to two people close to talks between the agency and the company. The two sides have discussed a possible settlement for weeks, said the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the investigation is continuing.Facebook declined to comment about Mr. Simons and the investigation. The social network has defended its actions, saying that when it learned a researcher violated its terms of service by giving user data to Cambridge Analytica, it demanded that the data be destroyed and was promised that it had been.On Wednesday, the company announced plans to shift to a more privacy-focused platform. Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, said Facebook would invest in encrypted communications and refashion its messaging tools to emphasize private conversations.Mr. Simons declined to discuss the Facebook case. And he was even guarded about his own use of technology. He would not say whether he used Facebook or two other popular apps owned by the company, Instagram and WhatsApp. He doesn’t use other social media like Twitter, he said; aides write the tweets from his official F.T.C. account.“I don’t even know how to access my account,” Mr. Simons said.His comfort zone is antitrust regulation, a major focus for the F.T.C. and an area in which he has worked for most of his career. In his meticulous office, Mr. Simons keeps handy a worn Yale Law Journal with red plastic tabs on antitrust articles. He has had six of its authors speak at the F.T.C. since he arrived.In one of his first actions as chairman, he held hearings on updating merger reviews and antitrust enforcement in the digital age. In late February, he announced a task force of 17 antitrust staff members to study potential problems that could arise from past tech mergers.“In antitrust, you want to focus on areas where there is likely to be market power or monopoly power,” Mr. Simons said. “So it is not unreasonable to look at big digital platforms and say, well, that might be an ripe area to look at.”He is new to the world of data privacy and admits he is cramming to understand it, immersing himself in articles and grilling staff about data protection. But that, he said, allows him to bring a “fresh perspective” to privacy enforcement.“I am willing to look at everything with a fresh eye, and to question long-held beliefs and assumptions,” he said.The F.T.C. monitors whether companies like Google, Uber and Facebook break promises written into privacy policies. But it can’t directly fine a company for a first-time offense; it can only charge a company with deceptive or unfair business practices, which the agency must prove in court. The potential penalty against Facebook could reach billions of dollars because the case hinges on whether it violated a previous settlement.Mr. Simons argues that the agency needs more direct authority to oversee privacy practices and fine companies. He says it is too hard to prove to a court that someone has been harmed by a company’s unauthorized use of their data.“It’s important that we get civil penalty authority,” he said. “For companies that have lots of money, the impact would be sufficient to deter them.”Privacy groups say the agency has missed numerous opportunities to punish companies with its existing powers. Many compare the commission with European regulators, which have levied hefty fines on Google, Facebook, Amazon and Apple for violating antitrust, privacy, tax and security laws.Some privacy advocates are also concerned about Mr. Simon’s inexperience in the area, saying it requires a deep understanding of complicated technologies.“I don’t think he understands the dimensions and implications underlying the consumer privacy threat,” said Jeffrey Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group.Mr. Simons said there were obvious differences between how the United States and Europe viewed privacy.“The E.U. has this strong sense of the right to be forgotten,” he said. “We don’t have that. We have the opposite of that. We have the First Amendment.”And he said the details of how the government handled digital privacy should be for lawmakers, not him, to sort out.“Privacy involves very important societal and cultural values that really need to be determined by the Congress,” Mr. Simons said, pointing toward Capitol Hill, less than a mile up Pennsylvania Avenue from his office.“Not,” he said, “by unelected F.T.C. commissioners.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestBy Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Welcome to your quick and painless summary of tech and business news. You don’t need reminding that it’s the shortest weekend of the year; make the most of it.MARCH 3-9Facebook, the platform known for sharing your personal information with the world whether you like it or not, is going for a more discreet vibe these days. The company’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, wants to nudge users toward “private” messaging and away from blasting their networks with status updates, a trend he says is already underway. He likened his new vision, which will integrate other Facebook-owned platforms like Instagram and WhatsApp, to a “digital living room” where people can have intimate discussions secure from outsiders. (He emphasized the term “encrypted.”) It’s unclear how this pivot will affect Facebook’s business model, and critics have pointed out the obvious paradox of a company known for playing fast and loose with users’ data suddenly espousing privacy protection.Yet another sign that the country’s economy may be cooling: February’s disappointing jobs numbers. Only 20,000 new jobs were added, far less than the 175,000 that analysts had predicted. It’s the weakest report since September 2017, but on the upside, it still marks the 101st consecutive month of growth. Wall Street got good news this past week as regulators eased their oversight of the nation’s biggest banks. The policy shift is part of the Trump administration’s promise to call off the watchdogs put in place after the 2008 financial crisis, rules that the financial industry has criticized as hampering economic growth. While these rollbacks may help stoke markets, they could also lead to a less transparent financial system — and a repeat of past mistakes. Go back to enjoying your pasta: The Italian food impresario Mario Batali has formally exited his dining empire. More than a year after multiple women accused him of sexual harassment and assault, he “will no longer profit from the restaurants in any way, shape or form,” said Tanya Bastianich Manuali, who will run the remaining 16 establishments in Mr. Batali’s former portfolio. She and her brother, Mr. Batali’s erstwhile business partner Joe Bastianich, bought the disgraced chef’s shares in the Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group for an undisclosed sum. Mr. Batali will also hand over the keys to Eataly, the chain of Italian food emporiums. MARCH 10-16If you’ve been holding out for a Tesla that can fit your family and Elon Musk’s ego, the automaker will unveil its new crossover S.U.V., the Model Y, at the company’s Los Angeles design studio this week. Mr. Musk, the chief executive, said that the Model Y will be about 10 percent roomier than the Model 3 sedan, have slightly less battery range and come at a higher price. Tesla could certainly use the revenue boost. In its effort to sell the Model 3 for a long-promised $35,000, it’s had to lay off workers, close showrooms and cut other costs — moves that have battered its stock price. Wondering what the growing crowd of presidential candidates will be talking about this coming week, in addition to the country’s new record-high trade deficit? Well, President Trump is expected to deliver his budget proposal for 2020 this Monday, about a month late because of the government shutdown earlier this year. Lower tax revenue and increased government spending have driven up annual budget deficits, which now are expected to exceed $1 trillion starting in 2022, according to the Congressional Budget Office. But Mr. Trump is likely to play down those numbers and focus on spending cuts instead. It’s understandable if you’ve been ignoring the Brexit commotion; all that back-and-forth was getting tedious. But now is the time to start paying attention, as talks come down to the wire. Britain’s House of Commons will vote on the latest version of Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan this Tuesday. If it is rejected — as it probably will be — then Parliament will vote on whether to leave the European Union without a deal or to delay Britain’s departure beyond the original March 29 deadline. Either way, the path doesn’t look smooth, and the European Central Bank is bracing itself. On Thursday, it abruptly reversed course and revived its stimulus measures.Uber will not be held criminally liable for the death of a woman who was hit by a self-driving test car in Arizona last year, although its safety driver — who was sitting in the driver’s seat at the time of the accident — still could face charges. In other news, a new cosmetics deal has made Kylie Jenner, at 21 years old, the world’s youngest “self-made” billionaire (the “self-made” label is up for debate, but hey, the money’s real). Perhaps she’ll buy this Bugatti, which set a record last week as the world’s most expensive car at $19 million.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSAN FRANCISCO — Facebook is nominating to its board of directors a PayPal executive who recently served as finance chief of the charitable organization run by CEO Mark Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan.Peggy Alford would be the first African American woman to serve on Facebook's board. Her naming follows pressure from civil rights groups on the company to diversify its board.Meanwhile, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and former White House chief of staff Erskine Bowles are stepping down from Facebook's board. Both served since 2011. Hastings leaves Facebook as the social media company is getting increasingly into video offerings, potentially competing with Netflix.Disney CEO Bob Iger, however, said earlier Friday that he's not leaving Apple's board, despite both companies now streaming video.Advertisement"
" Advertisement

      By CHARLIE WARZEL and 
    
STUART A. THOMPSON

APRIL 10, 2019

On June 9, 1999, Google made a pledge to its small but growing number of customers in a blunt 600-word statement. “Google is sensitive to the privacy concerns of its users. The internet allows individuals to explore and communicate with unprecedented ease, but it also allows websites to collect and distribute personal information with equal ease. We at Google know that many users are, understandably, concerned about such practices.”The statement, which today reads like a quaint artifact of a simpler time, would become the company’s first privacy policy — a gently lawyered explanation of how the company collects and distributes its users’ data and information. Google’s was far from the first privacy statement from a big technology business, but it’s one of the first examples of the form from a company that helped lay the foundation for the modern, information-guzzling internet.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what's at stake and what you can do about it.]  And it wasn’t only Google that was “sensitive to the privacy concerns of its users.” All of today’s tech giants have made similar commitments.In 2002, the Microsoft founder Bill Gates declared, “Users should be in control of how their data is used.”Three years later, Facebook, through its founder, Mark Zuckerberg, echoed the statement in a note to its campus user base, “We give you control of your information.”Similar statements from countless technology companies have followed in the years since. Over that time, they have said they would like to protect your privacy ...… even as many companies began to collect and display information invasively.Technology companies have also tried to explain all the ways they protect your privacy ...… but the rhetoric was different from reality, where a number of companies experienced hacks and data breaches.Since the early 2000s, companies have argued that despite all the data they collect, you still own it ...… and yet default designs and settings and lax security have long left information vulnerable.Finally, since the advent of concerns about Google and Facebook’s use of personal data for advertising,  companies have pointed out that they don’t sell your data …… and nonetheless many of the companies' business models are predicated on a targeted advertising model that relies on the continued collection of increasingly personal information.It’s been almost 20 years since Google’s first privacy statement. The internet today is a significantly different place, one that’s largely powered by the transmission and transfer of our personal information. Data breaches — some of vertiginous scale — are common, as is the creeping sense that, in order to log on, we’re forced to submit to being tracked and targeted.But if the modern internet has changed greatly, the statements from the multinational corporations that transformed it have remained strikingly similar. The tech companies and their leaders have been saying we should be in charge of our information for 20 years. So why — now, more than ever — does it feel that we aren’t?Charlie Warzel, a New York Times Opinion writer at large, covers technology, media, politics and online extremism. He welcomes your tips and feedback: charlie.warzel@nytimes.com and @cwarzel. Stuart A. Thompson is the graphics director for The New York Times OpinionThe Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.The New York Times is launching an ongoing examination of privacy. We’ll dig into the ideas, history and future of how our information navigates the digital ecosystem and what’s at stake.See all Privacy articlesFrom the NewsroomApril 13, 2019See all Privacy articlesAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSubscribe: iTunes | Google Play Music | How to ListenThe venture capitalist Roger McNamee has a long history with Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook. Among other things, he suggested that Zuckerberg hire Sheryl Sandberg to be his chief operating officer.“For the past two years,” McNamee says on this week’s podcast, “I have converted from being an investor in technology to being a critic of companies that I was part of helping to build and which I love dearly, but which sadly are now unintentionally causing great harm.”McNamee addresses his concerns and what he thinks can be done about them in a discussion about his new book, “Zucked: Waking Up to the Facebook Catastrophe.”Charles Finch also visits us this week, to talk about the season’s best thrillers, including Jane Harper’s “The Lost Man,” which Finch calls “a roar back to form” by a “gifted, laconic” writer.Also on this week’s episode, Lovia Gyarkye, Tina Jordan and John Williams talk about what people are reading. Pamela Paul is the host.Here are the books discussed in this week’s “What We’re Reading”:“The Water Cure” by Sophie Mackintosh“A Brief History of Seven Killings” by Marlon James“Hold Still” by Sally Mann“Notes on a Nervous Planet” by Matt HaigWe would love to hear your thoughts about this episode, and about the Book Review’s podcast in general. You can send them to books@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas FullerSAN FRANCISCO — Three blocks from Mark Zuckerberg’s $10 million Tudor home in San Francisco, Jake Orta lives in a small, single-window studio apartment filled with trash.There’s a child’s pink bicycle helmet that Mr. Orta dug out from the garbage bin across the street from Mr. Zuckerberg’s house. And a vacuum cleaner, a hair dryer, a coffee machine — all in working condition — and a pile of clothes that he carried home in a Whole Foods paper bag retrieved from Mr. Zuckerberg’s bin.A military veteran who fell into homelessness and now lives in government subsidized housing, Mr. Orta is a full-time trash picker, part of an underground economy in San Francisco of people who work the sidewalks in front of multimillion-dollar homes, rummaging for things they can sell.Trash picking is a profession more often associated with shantytowns and favelas than a city at the doorstep of Silicon Valley. The Global Alliance of Waste Pickers, a nonprofit research and advocacy organization, counts more than 400 trash picking organizations across the globe, almost all of them in Latin America, Africa and southern Asia.But trash scavengers exist in many United States cities and, like the rampant homelessness in San Francisco, are a signpost of the extremes of American capitalism. A snapshot from 2019: One of the world’s richest men and a trash picker, living a few minutes’ walk from each other.Mr. Orta, 56, sees himself as more of a treasure hunter.“It just amazes me what people throw away,” he said one night, as he found a pair of gently used designer jeans, a new black cotton jacket, gray Nike running sneakers and a bicycle pump. “You never know what you will find.”Mr. Orta says his goal is to earn around $30 to $40 a day from his discoveries, a survival income of around $300 a week.Trash picking is illegal in California — once a bin is rolled out onto the sidewalk the contents are considered the possession of the trash collection company, according to Robert Reed, a spokesman for Recology, the company contracted to collect San Francisco’s garbage. But the law is rarely enforced.Mr. Orta was born in San Antonio, Tex., one of 12 children. He spent more than a dozen years in the Air Force, loading aircraft during the Persian Gulf war of 1991 and was dispatched to Germany, Korea and Saudi Arabia. By the time he returned to the United States, his wife had left him, and he struggled with alcoholism and homelessness. He moved to San Francisco, and five years ago qualified for a program assisting chronically homeless veterans.At dusk he leaves his apartment building, which is wedged between a popular brunch spot for tech workers and a cannabis shop in the heart of the Mission neighborhood. The smell of marijuana fills the vestibule. Walking up a steep hill lined with mature trees, he passes homes that could pass for works of art: Victorians, some with stained glass and elaborate cornices and moldings painted in a soft palette of pastels, ocher, celadon and teal. A virtual tour of the neighborhood on the Zillow site shows that homes valued at $3 million and above are the norm.But Mr. Orta doesn’t look at the architecture. He walks the streets, slightly stooped, his eyes on the ground and a flashlight in his back pocket. His friends call him the Finder.On the six times Mr. Orta went out with a reporter, he followed a variety of circuits, but usually ended up exploring his favorite alleys and a dumpster that has been bountiful. (The first rule of dumpster scavenging, he said, is to make sure there’s no raccoon or possum in there.) In March, the dumpster yielded a box of silver goblets, dishes and plates, as if someone had yanked a tablecloth from underneath a feast in some European chateau.“How do you say it?” William Washington, one of Mr. Orta’s trash-picking colleagues, remarked one night. “One man’s trash is another man’s treasure.”Mr. Orta’s other recent discoveries: phones, iPads, three wristwatches and bags of marijuana. (“I smoked it,” he said when asked how much he got for the pot.) In late August or September, as participants return from the annual Burning Man festival in the Nevada desert, Mr. Orta says he often finds abandoned bicycles covered in fine sand.Mr. Orta says he only takes what people have clearly thrown away, although 14 years ago he spent a few months in jail for breaking into someone’s garage in Sacramento and trying to steal a wrench for his bicycle. “It was a dumb mistake,” he said.For years San Francisco has been a global beacon of recycling, attracting a stream of government ministers, journalists and students from across the globe to study the sorting facilities of Recology.But the city is also full of young, affluent people preoccupied with demanding jobs and long commutes for whom the garbage can is a tempting way to get rid of that extra pair of jeans or old electronics cluttering their closet.“We have a lot of trash of convenience,” said Mr. Reed, the spokesman for Recology. “You’ve got more and more tech people here and this city is moving faster and faster. These people have short attention spans. Some discard items that ought to be repurposed through a thrift shop.”Trash pickers fall into several broad categories. For decades, elderly women and men have collected cardboard, paper, cans or bottles, lugging impossibly large bags around the city and bringing them to recycling centers for cash.The city is most concerned about the battered pickup trucks, known as mosquito fleets, that buzz around San Francisco collecting recyclables on an industrial scale, depriving Recology, and ultimately the city, of income, said Bill Barnes, a spokesman for the city administrator’s office.“That’s a significant challenge for residents because it results in higher garbage rates,” Mr. Barnes said.Trash pickers like Mr. Orta are in yet another category, targeting items in the black landfill garbage bins whose contents would otherwise go to what’s known as the pit — a hole in the ground on the outskirts of the city that resembles a giant swimming pool, where trash is crushed and compacted by a huge bulldozer and then carried by a fleet of trucks to a dump an hour and a half away. The city exports about 50 large truckloads a day.Nick Marzano, an Australian photographer who publishes a glossy magazine, Mission Gold, which documents the world of trash pickers in San Francisco, estimates there are several hundred garbage scavengers in the city.“It’s a civic service as I see it,” Mr. Marzano said. “Rather than this stuff going to landfill the items are being reused.”Mr. Marzano says there is overlap among trash picking and homelessness and public drug use — the street conditions that have ranked at the top of residents’ concerns for several years. But he sees trash picking, and the spontaneous sidewalk markets that pop up in neighborhoods like the Mission and Tenderloin, as a form of entrepreneurship.“It’s the primary form of income for people who have no other income,” he said.Mr. Orta sells what he retrieves at impromptu markets on Mission Street or at a more formal market on Saturdays on Julian Avenue. Children’s toys very rarely sell — parents don’t like the idea that they have come from the trash. Women’s clothing is iffy. But men don’t seem to care as much where the clothing came from, and jeans are easy to hawk for $5 or $10 a pair.Mr. Orta’s favorite item retrieved from the trash is one that he will not sell: a collection of newspapers from around the world documenting the course of World War II. He wonders why anyone would have thrown that away.On a recent Tuesday evening — the eve of trash collection in Mr. Zuckerberg’s neighborhood — Mr. Orta didn’t find anything worth keeping in the Facebook founder’s two garbage cans. Mr. Zuckerberg has at least one other home in the San Francisco Bay Area; this one he bought in November 2012 for $9,999,000 through a company he controls.In the blue recycling bin marked with Mr. Zuckerberg’s address, there were A&W diet root beer cans, cardboard boxes and a junk mail credit card offer. In the black landfill bin were remnants of a chicken dinner, a stale baguette and Chinese takeout containers.Mr. Orta pulled apart a garbage bag in the black bin.“Just junk — nothing in there.”Susan Beachy and Alain Delaquérière contributed research.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byIts plan to combine Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger entrenches its monopoly power, and the F.T.C. should step in.By Sally HubbardMs. Hubbard is an editor at The Capitol Forum.In response to calls that Facebook be forced to divest itself of WhatsApp and Instagram, Mark Zuckerberg has instead made a strategic power grab: He intends to put Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger onto a unified technical infrastructure. The integrated apps are to be encrypted to protect users from hackers. But who’s going to protect users from Facebook?Ideally, that would be the Federal Trade Commission, the agency charged with enforcing the antitrust laws and protecting consumers from unfair business practices. But the F.T.C. has looked the other way for far too long, failing to enforce its own 2011 consent decree under which Facebook was ordered to stop deceiving users about its privacy claims. The F.T.C. has also allowed Facebook to gobble up any company that could possibly compete against it, including Instagram and WhatsApp.Not that blocking these acquisitions would have been easy for the agency under the current state of antitrust law. Courts require antitrust enforcers to prove that a merger will raise prices or reduce production of a particular product or service. But proving that prices will increase is nearly impossible in a digital world where consumers pay not with money but with their personal data and by viewing ads.The integration Mr. Zuckerberg plans would immunize Facebook’s monopoly power from attack. It would make breaking Instagram and WhatsApp off as independent and viable competitors much harder, and thus demands speedy action by the government before it’s too late to take the pieces apart. Mr. Zuckerberg might be betting that he can integrate these three applications faster than any antitrust case could proceed — and he would be right, because antitrust cases take years.Luckily, the F.T.C. has a way to act quickly. Prompted by the Cambridge Analytica scandal, the agency has been investigating Facebook for violating that 2011 consent decree, which required it, among other things, to not misrepresent its handling of user information and to create a comprehensive privacy program. The F.T.C. can demand Facebook stop the integration as one of the conditions for settling any charges related to the consent decree, rather than just imposing an inconsequential fine.If not stopped, the integration will cement Facebook’s monopoly power by enriching its data trove, allowing it to spy on users in new ways. Facebook might decide to sync data from one app to another so it can better track users. And Facebook needs user data: The reason it commands such a large share of digital advertising is that it tracks users — and even people without Facebook accounts — across millions of sites. It gathers data that allows it to target ads more precisely than many of its rivals for digital ad dollars, including news media sites and content creators.After stopping Mr. Zuckerberg’s integration plan, the F.T.C. should reverse the WhatsApp and Instagram acquisitions as illegal under the Clayton Act, which prohibits mergers and acquisitions where the effect “may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly.” Undoing the mergers would give consumers an alternative to Facebook-owned apps and force Facebook to do better. Without meaningful competition, Facebook has little incentive to protect users by making changes that could reduce profits. Users unhappy about data collection and algorithms that promote fake news and political polarization don’t have anywhere to go.Any future Facebook acquisitions, no matter what the size, should be strictly reviewed because of the company’s history of deceiving users. Facebook uses technology, like its Onavo and Research apps, that monitor consumers’ app usage to identify potential rivals even before they are big enough to get on antitrust enforcers’ radars. Internal Facebook documents published by the British Parliament show Facebook used Onavo data to identify WhatsApp as a competitive threat, only to convince regulators otherwise.Congress also should write legislation to overrule misguided cases that have neutered antitrust enforcement, and pass a strong privacy law with enough resources to enforce it. Only then, perhaps, will we be protected from Facebook. Sally Hubbard (@Sally_Hubbard) is a former assistant attorney general in the New York State Attorney General’s Antitrust Bureau and an editor at The Capitol Forum, where she covers technology and monopolization.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — Two U.S. senators introduced a bill on Tuesday to ban online social media companies like Facebook Inc and Twitter Inc from tricking consumers into giving up their personal data.The bill from Mark Warner, a Democrat, and Deb Fischer, a Republican, would also ban online platforms with more than 100 million monthly active users from designing addicting games or other websites for children under age 13. The bill takes aim at practices that online platforms use to mislead people into giving personal data to companies or otherwise trick them. The so-called ""dark patterns"" were developed using behavioral psychology.""Misleading prompts to just click the ‘OK’ button can often transfer your contacts, messages, browsing activity, photos, or location information without you even realizing it,"" Fischer said in a statement issued by both senators.Restrictions on how social media companies collect information about users could hurt their ability to sell advertisements, a key source of profit. A website aimed at tracking dark patterns identifies behavior, such as a website or app showing that a user has new notifications when they do not. Warner said in an interview on CNBC that the legislation could be included in a federal privacy bill that lawmakers in the Senate Commerce Committee are drafting. Congress has been expected to take up privacy legislation after California passed a strict privacy law that goes into effect next year.Warner noted that Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg, Google and others have expressed support for privacy regulation.""The platform companies are now going to have an opportunity to put their money where their mouth is, to see if they support this legislation and other approaches,"" he said. The bill would bar companies from choosing groups of people for behavioral experiments unless the companies get informed consent.Under the terms of the bill, social media companies would create a professional standards body to create best practices to deal with the issue. The Federal Trade Commission, which investigates deceptive advertising, would work with the group.Facebook, Google, Twitter and other free online services rely on advertising for revenue, and use data collected on users to more effectively target those ads.The story refiles to fix typographical error in last paragraph to make it ""rely"" instead of ""relay"" (Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Susan Thomas and Jonathan Oatis)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — For months, President Trump has been railing about the urgent need for a wall to protect against what he calls “an invasion” of illegal immigrants flooding across the southwestern border. But he has also been delivering another message: “We need workers,” he told a group of activists recently.In other words, he wants more immigrants.“I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally,” Mr. Trump ad-libbed last month during his State of the Union address.Comments like those from the president have ignited furious criticism from his hard-line, anti-immigrant supporters who accuse him of caving to demands for cheap foreign labor from corporations, establishment Republicans and big donors while abandoning his election promise to protect his working-class supporters from the effects of globalism.“This is clearly a betrayal of what immigration hawks hoped the Trump administration would be for,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates cutting legal immigration by more than half. He warned that Mr. Trump was in danger of being “not even that different from a conventional Republican.”Breitbart News, a conservative website that promotes anti-immigrant messaging, published on Thursday the latest in a series of articles attacking Mr. Trump for catering to big business at the expense of the Americans who put him in the Oval Office. “Trump Requests ‘More’ Foreign Workers as Southern Border Gets Overrun,” the site blared on its home page.“That Mr. Trump would advance the interests of the global elite ahead of our citizens would be a tragic reversal on any day,” Lou Dobbs, the Fox Business Network host, said in a televised rant against the president on Wednesday evening. “The White House has simply lost its way.”Corporations and influential corporate conservatives such as Charles G. Koch and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have long urged the president to help them recruit the talent they need by expanding the number of workers who can enter the United States from other countries.That has become more urgent as the economy has improved and as declining unemployment has made it harder for companies to find workers. To assuage their concerns, Mr. Trump has increasingly tailored his immigration talking points to cater to the needs of business executives like those who attended a business round table on Wednesday at the White House.“We’re going to have a lot of people coming into the country. We want a lot of people coming in. And we need it,” Mr. Trump said as he sat next to Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, and other executives. “We want to have the companies grow, and the only way they’re going to grow is if we give them the workers, and the only way we’re going to have the workers is to do exactly what we’re doing.”But that message runs counter to the hard-line immigration image that Mr. Trump has carefully nurtured — most recently by shutting the government down for 35 days in a failed attempt to pressure Congress to fund a wall on the Mexican border.Mr. Trump won the White House in no small part by embracing anti-immigrant messaging that tapped into the economic fears of blue-collar workers upset about losing their jobs to foreign workers. Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, he attacked undocumented immigrants as “rapists and murderers” and called for a “big, beautiful wall” along the border with Mexico.Since becoming president, Mr. Trump has aggressively sought to crack down on illegal border crossings, increase deportations, cut the number of refugees allowed into the United States and make it harder for migrants to claim asylum. He has complained about drug dealers, gangs and members of Central American caravans pouring across the border. And last summer, his administration separated thousands of migrant children from their parents in an effort to deter Central American families from trying to seek refuge in the United States.The harsh record — and comments by Mr. Trump that disparaged African nations in vulgar terms and suggested that Haitian immigrants “all have AIDS” — has earned him the enmity of Democrats and immigration activists, who call him a racist president.It is unclear whether Mr. Trump will follow through on his recent, pro-business messaging. Many of the president’s aides — including Stephen Miller, his top immigration adviser in the White House — agree with the hard-line activists about the need to lower legal immigration.In 2017, Mr. Trump endorsed the Raise Act, a Republican Senate bill that would reduce legal immigration by as much as 50 percent. And the administration is currently considering a proposal to cut immigration by denying work authorizations, known as H-4 permits, to almost 100,000 spouses of immigrants who are brought in by companies to work legally in the United States.But even so, some of the nation’s most hard-line anti-immigration activists have become increasingly nervous that Mr. Trump might waver on their primary concern — the need to shrink the number of immigrants who enter the United States each year, currently 1.1 million.They argue that tight labor markets make it exactly the wrong time to allow more foreign workers to compete with Americans. Chris Chmielenski, the deputy director of NumbersUSA, which lobbies for lower legal immigration, said companies should be pressured to hire more Americans instead.“Anything we do now to bring in more foreign workers could actually reverse some of the economic gains over the last four years,” Mr. Chmielenski said. “We’re absolutely concerned. We feel this isn’t how he ran on the issue.”Last week, in an effort to communicate that message directly to Mr. Trump, NumbersUSA began airing an ad on Fox News Channel in the hopes that the president would get the message that his supporters do not want to let in more than one million immigrants each year.“The majority of voters say the number should be cut to 500,000 or less,” the ad said. “Americans want less immigration.”Mr. Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said that companies that no longer have access to foreign workers would have no choice but to turn to Americans who are still struggling to find work: people with disabilities, teenagers, older people and even former convicts.He also said that modest increases in wages for workers would evaporate if companies were allowed to simply tap an unlimited pool of lower-paid workers from other countries.“If you want wages to go up,” Mr. Krikorian said, “you don’t import more foreign labor.”Business groups dispute that analysis. They argue that immigration expands the amount of business activity in the United States, adding jobs and increasing wages for the vast majority of American workers.“Our country has benefited tremendously from welcoming people who have contributed to our economy, our communities, across the board,” said James Davis, a spokesman for the Koch network. “We want to welcome in everyone who wants to contribute to our society. We want to see more legal immigration.”Todd Schulte, the president of FWD.us, a pro-immigration advocacy group that started with backing from Mark Zuckerberg, a founder of Facebook, said that “immigrants and immigration increase economic growth, they increase economic productivity and they increase wages for the overwhelming number of native-born Americans.”Mr. Schulte, whose group has been highly critical of Mr. Trump’s anti-immigrant messaging and policies, welcomed the president’s recognition that legal immigration is a positive thing for the United States’ economy.But he cautioned that Mr. Trump must be measured by his actions, not his words. He called on the president to halt the effort to deny the H-4 work permits to immigrant spouses.“He should stop trying to revoke the H-4 rule,” Mr. Schulte said. “Increasing legal immigration would help native-born Americans. Unfortunately, the record has been one bent on cutting overall immigration levels.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — Two U.S. senators introduced a bill on Tuesday to ban online social media companies like Facebook Inc and Twitter Inc from tricking consumers into giving up their personal data.The bill from Mark Warner, a Democrat, and Deb Fischer, a Republican, would also ban online platforms with more than 100 million monthly active users from designing addicting games or other websites for children under age 13. The bill takes aim at practices that online platforms use to mislead people into giving personal data to companies or otherwise trick them. The so-called ""dark patterns"" were developed using behavioral psychology.""Misleading prompts to just click the ‘OK’ button can often transfer your contacts, messages, browsing activity, photos, or location information without you even realizing it,"" Fischer said in a statement issued by both senators.Restrictions on how social media companies collect information about users could hurt their ability to sell advertisements, a key source of profit. A website aimed at tracking dark patterns identifies behavior, such as a website or app showing that a user has new notifications when they do not. Warner said in an interview on CNBC that the legislation could be included in a federal privacy bill that lawmakers in the Senate Commerce Committee are drafting. Congress has been expected to take up privacy legislation after California passed a strict privacy law that goes into effect next year.Warner noted that Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg, Google and others have expressed support for privacy regulation.""The platform companies are now going to have an opportunity to put their money where their mouth is, to see if they support this legislation and other approaches,"" he said. The bill would bar companies from choosing groups of people for behavioral experiments unless the companies get informed consent.Under the terms of the bill, social media companies would create a professional standards body to create best practices to deal with the issue. The Federal Trade Commission, which investigates deceptive advertising, would work with the group.Facebook, Google, Twitter and other free online services rely on advertising for revenue, and use data collected on users to more effectively target those ads.The story refiles to fix typographical error in last paragraph to make it ""rely"" instead of ""relay"" (Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Susan Thomas and Jonathan Oatis)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this ny email? Sign up here.)Saudi Aramco began a road show to pitch prospective investors on a $10 billion bond offering, providing a peek into the state-owned oil company’s books — and showing how incredibly profitable it is.Aramco made $111.1 billion in profit last year, according to data provided to credit ratings agencies. That means it was the world’s most profitable company in 2018, Bloomberg notes, making more than Apple and Alphabet combined.The company produced 13.6 million barrels of oil equivalent a day last year, which far surpasses any other producer, such as Royal Dutch Shell or BP.The disclosures finally shed light on the oil company’s finances and operations. (They were necessary as part of the bond offering that will support Aramco’s $69 billion deal to buy control of a Saudi chemical company, Sabic.)Credit ratings agencies were impressed. Moody’s assigned Aramco’s bonds an A1 rating (though still below the Aaa that it gave to Exxon Mobil). The agency said the biggest risk to the rating was any downgrade to Saudi Arabia’s own financial picture.Facebook’s C.E.O. wrote an opinion piece for the WaPo on Saturday laying out how he believes his company should be treated. His top policy executive, Nick Clegg, echoed its points in an interview with Politico. Here’s how Mike Isaac of the NYT reads between the lines:• Harmful content. Mr. Zuckerberg called for lawmakers to decide “what counts as terrorist propaganda, hate speech and more.” By adhering to the letter of the law, Facebook can effectively shield itself from blame if something goes awry.• Election protection. “Our systems would be more effective if regulation created common standards for verifying political actors,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. That would serve Facebook well, Mr. Isaac writes: “When the next erroneous outburst inevitably occurs, Facebook could point toward the law it was forced to follow.”• Privacy and data protection issues. “I believe it would be good for the internet if more countries adopted regulation such as G.D.P.R. as a common framework,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote, referring to Europe’s data protection rule. If laws are enacted to limit data collection in the future, Mr. Isaac notes, Facebook might be able to squash smaller competitors.• Data portability. “Regulation should guarantee the principle of data portability,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. Facebook claims its users would be able to freely take their information from one network to the next, Mr. Isaac says. But in reality, data portability could help the company combine its platforms, which include Instagram and WhatsApp.More: Facebook will start explaining why people are being shown content in their news feed. The company “mistakenly deleted” many of Mr. Zuckerberg’s old posts. And lawmakers in Australia and New Zealand want to ban “weaponized” social media.As the two countries nudge ever closer to striking an agreement, Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT explain how one of its key tenets could undercut Washington’s vision:• “Any agreement seems certain to involve China’s promise to purchase hundreds of billions of dollars of American goods. For Mr. Trump, this is an essential element that will help reduce the United States’ record trade deficit with China.”• “But those purchases will be ordered by the Chinese state, and most will be carried out by state-controlled Chinese businesses, further cementing Beijing’s role in managing its economy and potentially making United States industries even more beholden to the Chinese.”“Both sides are trying to iron out an agreement by next week, to coincide with a visit to Washington by Liu He, the Chinese special envoy charged with negotiating the deal,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Bradsher write. The goal is reportedly “to have an agreement by the end of that meeting, with a signing ceremony between Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China potentially later this month.”But there are still sticking points. “Those include how an agreement will be monitored and enforced, and how many of Mr. Trump’s tariffs come off and when,” according to Ms. Swanson and Mr. Bradsher.The ride-hailing company began trading on the public markets on Friday, with its stock closing up about 9 percent. But the file of winners is bigger than just those who bought into the stock before it listed:• Gig economy start-ups. Lyft showed that there’s interest in the public markets for companies that rely on part-time employees. (But the big question is still whether they can ever make money.)• The Golden State, truly. Lyft’s success bodes well for its home state, California, which is set to collect a capital-gains tax bonanza from the tech companies planning to go public this year. Alejandro Lazo of the WSJ reports that the state is already expected to draw nearly 10 percent of its revenue for the next fiscal year from tech I.P.O.s — a figure that could grow if the offerings perform better than expected.• Uber. The world’s largest ride-hailing company will probably be heartened by Lyft’s success. One unnamed investor told the FT that a $120 billion valuation for Uber now “doesn’t look too unreasonable.”Who didn’t win: Anyone who bought shares in Lyft after it listed on the Nasdaq.More: Meet the V.C.s who are expected to be big winners from the coming wave of tech I.P.O.s.After rejecting Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal deal for a third time on Friday, British lawmakers will attempt again to come up with an alternative.Parliament will vote on options later today. There are eight proposals, none of which won a majority when they were voted on last week. John Bercow, the speaker of the House of Commons, may trim down the options, which could force cohesion around a plan. Mrs. May continues to scramble. The FT reports that she is considering a fourth vote on her deal, while she grapples with a breakdown of trust inside her Conservative Party.If Parliament remains deadlocked, Britain faces a choice: Leave the European Union without a deal on April 12, or ask Brussels for another extension.There is a feeling of anger and embarrassment. “In interviews, many Britons expressed despair over the inability of the political system to produce a compromise,” Ellen Barry and Benjamin Mueller of the NYT write. “No one feels that the government has represented their interests. No one is satisfied. No one is hopeful. It has amounted to a hollowing out of confidence in democracy itself.”More:  There is at least one Brexit winner in Britain: the corporate law industry, which is profiting from companies trying to prepare.The Amazon chief’s security consultant accused the Saudi government of gaining unauthorized access to Mr. Bezos’ phone, Karen Weise of the NYT reports:• “In an opinion article in The Daily Beast on Saturday, Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ security chief, alleged the Saudis wanted to hurt Mr. Bezos because he owns The Washington Post. The Post has aggressively reported on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, one of its columnists, who was killed last year in Turkey.”• “Mr. de Becker’s claims about the Saudis are difficult to verify and raise many questions. Throughout his article, the security consultant was vague on details.”• “On Sunday, American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, which first reported earlier this year that Mr. Bezos was having an extramarital affair, issued a statement denying ‘the false and unsubstantiated claims of Mr. de Becker.’ ”State lawmakers reached a $175 billion budget deal over the weekend. It promises sweeping changes to the way New Yorkers commute, shop and live, the NYT reports.Congestion pricing — a first in the U.S. — will subject vehicles traveling below 60th Street in Manhattan to a toll. The revenue will go toward the subway and other transportation projects. Specifics, like what the charge will be, have been deferred to other authorities.The state also banned single-use plastic shopping bags, following California and Hawaii.But it dropped plans for a recurring “pied-à-terre tax” of 5 percent on the value of high-end second homes, after opposition from the real estate industry. Instead, lawmakers adopted a “mansion tax” and a real estate transfer tax, two one-time charges that would top out at 4.15 percent on the sale of properties worth at least $25 million.The Louis Dreyfus Company reportedly ousted Gonzalo Ramírez Martiarena as C.E.O. after he started holding deal talks with rivals.Alok Sama, the C.F.O. of SoftBank’s international arm, is reportedly leaving the Japanese tech giant.Deals• The activist hedge fund Starboard Value has dropped its campaign against Bristol-Myers Squibb’s deal to buy Celgene. (CNBC)• The talent agency Endeavor is reportedly preparing an I.P.O. later this year. (WSJ)• Vivendi withdrew a motion to replace directors of Telecom Italia, conceding defeat to Elliott Management. (Bloomberg)• Jonathan Lavine, a managing partner of Bain Capital, worries that private equity firms are piling too much debt onto their deals. (FT)• European lenders are starting to grow wary of giving money to WeWork. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• President Trump reportedly thinks that a lawsuit to overturn the Affordable Care Act — which his administration is backing — will fail. (Axios)• A federal judge ruled against the White House’s plan to open up the Arctic Ocean for oil drilling. (NYT)• Joe Biden scrambled to defend himself after a former Nevada lawmaker accused him of inappropriately kissing and touching her. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren has lost her presidential campaign’s finance director after a disagreement over abandoning big-ticket donors. (NYT)• Mr. Trump reportedly wants to “save” Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s seat on the Supreme Court for Amy Coney Barrett, a conservative federal judge who opposes abortion. (Axios)Boeing• The inquiry into the fatal Ethiopian Airlines crash is said to believe a faulty anti-stall sensor was to blame. (NYT)• “Pitch up, pitch up”: the final minutes of the doomed flight. (WSJ)• U.S. and Ethiopian investigators are reportedly clashing over the investigation. (WSJ)Tech• The initial coin offering market has ground to a halt. (WSJ)• Google has stopped serving ads in China for two websites that help bypass censorship. Skeptics say the move is an attempt to appeal to Beijing. (FT)• Alphabet’s A.I. subsidiary, DeepMind, is readying its first commercial product: a device that will diagnose some complex eye diseases in real time. (FT)• Some consumers are accusing Tesla of using upselling tricks to move more expensive cars. (Quartz)Best of the rest• Michael Avenatti has taken on many high-profile legal fights, but his biggest yet is his own court case. (NYT)• How the financier Morrie Tobin became the whistle-blower in the college admissions scandal. (LAT)• A federal judge wants to limit PG&E’s dividends to force the utility to reduce the risk of causing California wildfires. (WSJ)• How tens of thousands of far-right extremists helped swindle $1 billion from the federal government. (NYT)• Burger King is introducing a meat-free “Impossible Whopper.” (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IsaacSAN FRANCISCO — Facebook’s worst year ever was its best year ever when it came to its business.After a string of scandals in 2018 damaged its reputation and raised questions about its handling of people’s data, the social network said Wednesday that it had gained new users around the world in the fourth quarter and reported a record profit. Facebook also posted its full results for 2018, which showed its total revenue and profit reaching record levels.The  results suggested that advertisers had continued to spend money on the site and that users were not deterred by Facebook’s issues, which include the spreading of disinformation and election meddling. The company had said last year that it expected its growth to slow as it spent to improve the privacy and security of its users.“One of the biggest questions people have about Facebook is whether we can make the massive investments we’re making to monitor and protect the platform while we keep growing our business,” Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, said in an interview on Wednesday. “This quarter shows we can do both.”Yet even as its growth continued, Facebook began de-emphasizing its core social network and started highlighting its family of apps, which include Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger. Facebook said it would eventually stop sharing user numbers for each individual service and instead provide one combined figure for all of its apps.The change is part of a strategy by Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, to knit together its businesses into one overarching network. Last week, The New York Times reported that he planned to integrate the technical infrastructure of WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger so that people could talk across the services for the first time. The move, which the company hopes to complete by the end of the year or by early 2020, could provide Facebook opportunities for additional revenue from messaging activity and would increase the utility of all of the apps.In a call with investors on Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg confirmed the report, calling the move an eventual boon for users. People want messaging that is “fast, private and reliable,” he said.The moves followed a difficult year for Facebook, as questions about the unintended consequences of social media have sharpened. The company has faced scrutiny over improper handling of its users’ data, its largest-ever security breach last year, and the distribution of false content and foreign influence campaigns across its network.This week, Facebook has been grappling with a report by TechCrunch that it paid people to install an app that would suck in all of their phone and web activity. That has renewed questions about Facebook’s approach to user privacy and prompted criticism from Apple, which oversees iPhone apps.For its fourth quarter, Facebook’s revenue rose 30 percent from a year earlier to $16.9 billion, while profits jumped 61 percent to $6.9 billion. Seven million advertisers spend money on the platform, the company said, and in a shift, more than two million now buy ads in Facebook’s Stories, one of its newer products.Facebook also said its daily active users had risen 9 percent from a year earlier to 1.52 billion, the same rate as in the previous quarter. Notably, the number of new users increased in every geography; in previous quarters, growth stagnated in the United States and in Europe. In total, Facebook said, 2.7 billion people now use its core social network and its other apps.The company added that its estimate of fake accounts on its site had jumped 27 percent from the third quarter to 116 million, while duplicate accounts rose 12.5 percent to 255 million.The overall results surpassed Wall Street estimates and sent shares of Facebook soaring more than 11 percent in after-hours trading. The company’s share price had plunged about 34 percent over the past year, down from a high of $218 in July.Facebook also said it expected that other investments in new products in areas such as e-commerce and payments systems would yield new revenue streams.Still, executives cautioned on Wednesday that profit margins would begin to thin in the coming year. Facebook increased its number of employees to more than 35,000 in 2018, up 42 percent, as it added more people to fight disinformation and moderate content on the site. Operating expenses will keep rising, the company said, as Facebook hires in key areas to deal with the issues.“A lot of our business challenges have been self-imposed,” Mr. Zuckerberg said on the call.Follow Mike Isaac on Twitter: @MikeIsaac.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate CongerSAN FRANCISCO — What would happen if Facebook and some of its apps — such as Instagram and WhatsApp — were to all go down at about the same time? And then stay intermittently out for hours?On Wednesday, people around the world found out when all three services experienced interruptions throughout the day.The problems began around 11 a.m. Eastern Time and affected users in countries including the United States, Japan, Australia and Mexico, according to DownDetector, an analytics service that calls itself a weather report for the internet.On Instagram, profiles refused to load. Some Facebook users logged on to empty news feeds, while others could see their friends’ updates but couldn’t like them. And WhatsApp users had trouble sending and receiving messages.As of 1 p.m. Eastern time on Thursday, most of Facebook’s services had been restored. Instagram was back online, although Facebook’s main app still faced some outages.“Yesterday, we made a server configuration change that triggered a cascading series of issues,” a Facebook spokesman said. “As a result, many people had difficulty accessing our apps and services. We have resolved the issues, and our systems have been recovering over the last few hours. We are very sorry for the inconvenience and we appreciate everyone’s patience.”Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, recently announced a push to bring all of his apps closer together, uniting direct messages across different services. The service interruptions highlighted the potential risks of a consolidated social media giant, as users flitted from one lonely social feed to the next, searching fruitlessly for updates.Even Facebook’s own bug report platform — in which it discloses what services are down — was offline. So the company used one of the only major social media platforms it doesn’t own, Twitter, to announce updates.The company added that the issues were not the result of a cyberattack.Instagram separately said it knew the experience was “frustrating.”Since Facebook and its apps have so many users — around 2.7 billion around the world — the venting was, understandably, heightened. Some people expressed grief at the apps being unavailable.Others said they were fleeing — where else? — to Twitter.Follow Kate Conger on Twitter: @kateconger.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byTim Cook keeps taking on Facebook, but Facebook’s stock keeps rising. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. The ongoing tension between Apple and Facebook flared again this week, causing a dramatic hubbub in the tech industry. I’d argue it was a nothing burger. Not because it was unimportant, but because it’s clear that despite persistent evidence that our privacy is being violated, it might not matter. Basically, the two digital giants engaged in an esoteric tussle over how Facebook did an end run around Apple’s very strict rules about data use on its app platform in order to suck up more user data. Through an app intended for internal use, Facebook paid people — including teenagers — $20 a month to track everything they did online. Since Facebook had been warned about this kind of thing before, Apple — noting the move was in “clear breach of their agreement” — retaliated by cutting off the oxygen, and Facebook’s access to its own internal apps. It did not, as many suggested it should, shut off other popular consumer-facing offerings on the iPhone like Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp.Shall I explain more? No, I shall not, because the details hardly matter, except to note that what Facebook did is the equivalent of sneaking out of the house after the curfew your parents imposed after you last sneaked out of the house. To put it more plainly, it was obnoxious and squirrelly and just the kind of behavior that we all now assume the company is capable of. Which is to say, we don’t trust Facebook in any way when it comes to using and protecting the data we entrust to it.[Kara Swisher will answer your questions about this column on Twitter on Friday at 2 p.m. Eastern: @KaraSwisher.]And neither does Apple and its chief executive, Tim Cook. Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder and chief executive, is clearly getting on Mr. Cook’s last nerve. I feel a little responsible for the acrimony, since it was in an MSNBC interview I did with Mr. Cook in March that the older, more seasoned executive decided to go full-bore on the young, leadership-challenged one.At the time, Facebook was in the news for the rampant abuse of its platform by Russia, so I asked Mr. Cook about data abuse. He started by comparing Apple’s business model to one like Facebook’s: “The truth is, we could make a ton of money if we monetized our customer — if our customer was our product. We’ve elected not to do that.”Then I asked: What would he do to fix it if he were Mr. Zuckerberg? His devastating answer: “What would I do? I wouldn’t be in this situation.”Ouch. In Silicon Valley terms that response was akin to Cardi B beefing on Nicki Minaj, except quantumly more geeky. There was a sharp intake of breath from everyone in tech, and a very pissy response from Mr. Zuckerberg, in which he called Mr. Cook “extremely glib.”He then asked his employees to use Google’s Android phones instead of iPhones “because it is the most popular operating system in the world.”Uh huh. Except that seems not to have worked and clearly many of his employees ignored the directive. There were reports that iPhone users at Facebook were left stranded this week when Apple cut off the company’s ability to use other beta and internal apps on the iOS platform. Along with unreleased versions of apps, that also meant employees could not access things like bus schedules and cafeteria lunch menus. Apple has since reinstated use of those internal apps. Not knowing which fresh kombucha was being served at 1 Hacker Way obviously hit Facebook techies where they lived, which was the point. It’s interesting to compare Apple’s response this time to a comparable episode with Google. TechCrunch (which broke the original story on the rogue Facebook app) noted that Google had done a similar thing with a research app. Apple did cut off its internal apps, but there was no public hand-slapping, and the tone between the companies has been cordial. The difference: Mr. Cook has been irritated with Mr. Zuckerberg for a while, as tech companies like Apple have been lumped into the messes that Facebook has created, problems that have attracted the ire of regulators and the media.It is not just Mr. Cook. A top executive at another tech giant termed it the “Facebook contagion,” and added, “they are infecting all of tech with their sloppy mistakes.”But what’s most remarkable is how much Mr. Cook has become the critic-in-chief for Facebook. It gets harder to play that role, however, when Apple makes mistakes, too. This week we learned that its FaceTime service had a significant bug that allowed people to spy on other people’s phones. Attorney General Letitia James of New York and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota both criticized Apple for being slow to reveal the issue to the public.It was too slow. But in the end Apple was properly apologetic and did shut down the glitch. Still, it’s not a good look to have a major privacy snafu right after touting your commitment to privacy.And it comes at a dicey time for Apple, which recently warned it was seeing weaker financial results and is under pressure to introduce even more new and innovative products. There is no rest for Mr. Cook, and many observers, including me, have posited that the next years for Apple will be challenging. Still, it’s interesting that Mr. Cook climbed out on this limb anyway. Some insiders at Facebook are alleging he did so to get the heat off Apple’s troubles. But that’s a canard. Mr. Cook has long been vocal about distinguishing Apple from Facebook when it comes to user data and the importance of protecting privacy.The bigger problem is that such an important issue might turn out to be the real nothing burger. Facebook turned in another stellar quarter this week, which made its stock rise strongly. So despite all the sketchy things the company is accused of doing by Apple and many others, most investors and analysts don’t seem to care, and they will never care, as long as its digital advertising business — goosed by its astonishing and nakedly ambitious ability to suck in data, data and more data from all of us — continues to impress. Simply put, Wall Street does not care. Or to use an old bromide: Facebook is so poor, all it has is money.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated Press___Once-counterculture 420 marijuana holiday goes mainstreamLOS ANGELES (AP) — Businesses inside and outside the multibillion-dollar marijuana industry are embracing the once-counterculture four-twenty holiday. Potheads have for decades celebrated their love of cannabis on April 20. But the annual celebration that was all about getting stoned is now so mainstream that Corporate America is starting to embrace it. Lyft and Carl's Jr. are among the businesses using April 20 to roll out marketing and social media messaging aimed at cannabis consumers.___US home construction slips 0.3% in MarchWASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. home construction slipped 0.3% in March, as housing starts are running below last year's pace in a sign that inventory could be a challenge for would-be buyers. The Commerce Department says that housing starts last month were a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.14 million.___Ancestry pulls slavery-era ad after backlashNEW YORK (AP) — Ancestry.com is apologizing for its ad that showed a white man and black woman discussing running off together to the North during the Civil War era. The ad drew widespread criticism online for whitewashing slavery. The DNA testing company removed the ad from TV and online in response to the backlash.___Toyota, SoftBank fund, Denso invest $1 billion in UberTOKYO (AP) — Japan's top automaker Toyota, auto parts maker Denso and internet company SoftBank's investment fund are investing $1 billion in car-sharing Uber's technology unit. The companies say Toyota Motor Corp. and Denso Corp. will together invest $667 million and SoftBank Corp.'s Vision Fund will contribute $333 million in Uber ATG, which will try to develop and commercialize automated ridesharing services. Toyota has been stepping up such efforts.___How many cherries in frozen pie? FDA may soon drop rulesNEW YORK (AP) — President Donald Trump may soon be able to claim a sweet victory for his deregulation push: Officials are preparing to get rid of decades-old rules for labeling frozen cherry pies. The regulations say the products must be at least 25% cherries by weight. The obscure rule is seen as an easy target because there are no rules for other pies. Getting rid of the cherry pie rules is likely to be far less controversial than the debate over what can be called milk.___Global stocks modestly higher in quiet holiday tradingTOKYO (AP) — Global stock indexes are mostly moderately higher in quiet holiday trading on Good Friday as some markets are closed. Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225, South Korea's Kospi and the Shanghai Composite are higher. Trading was closed in France, Germany and the U.K. Other markets also remain closed for the holiday, including in the U.S., Hong Kong and Australia.___Celebration of Japan's new era big opportunity for businessTOKYO (AP) — Japan is getting ready for its biggest celebration in years with the advent of the Reiwa era of soon-to-be emperor Naruhito. That means big opportunities for businesses hoping consumers will splash out on long holidays and memorabilia. Many Japanese will get their longest ever ""Golden Week"" holidays, 10 days, and some are taking advantage of deep discounts. The expected downsides: monster traffic jams and struggles to keep store shelves stocked with so many people getting time off.___Report: FTC considering oversight of Facebook's ZuckerbergWASHINGTON (AP) — Washington Post says discussions between Facebook and Federal Trade Commission officials about the company's data-handing lapses have touched on instituting some sort of oversight for company CEO Mark Zuckerberg. The Facebook founder also controls a majority of Facebook's voting stock.___Panel to review approval of Boeing 737 Max flight controlsDETROIT (AP) — A global team of experts next week will begin reviewing how the Boeing 737 Max's flight control system was approved by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration. The FAA says experts from nine international civil aviation authorities have confirmed participation in a technical review promised by the agency. The Boeing jetliner has been grounded around the world since mid-March after two crashes killed 346 people.___China downplays political impact of global development pushBEIJING (AP) — China is downplaying the political implications of its global development campaign known as the Belt and Road initiative, saying that it aims to boost multilateralism amid protectionist trends in the U.S. and elsewhere. Foreign Minister Wang Yi said a meeting to promote the initiative next week in Beijing would draw leaders from 37 countries, underscoring heavy demand for Chinese investment.___Alibaba head's remarks spark debate over China working hoursBEIJING (AP) — Remarks by the head of Chinese online business giant Alibaba that young people should work from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. six days a week if they want financial success have prompted a debate over work-life balance. Jack Ma is one of China's richest men and his comments brought both condemnation and support as China's economic growth has slowed. Grueling hours are credited with fueling China's economic rise but also a deteriorating quality of life.___Fiat Chrysler recalls over 300K cars due to rollaway riskDETROIT (AP) — Fiat Chrysler is recalling more than 300,000 vehicles in North America because a transmission problem could cause them to roll away unexpectedly. The recall covers Dodge Dart compact cars from the 2013 through 2016 with six-speed automatic transmissions. The company says a bushing can fail, causing the shifter cable to come loose from the transmission. That means when a driver shifts to park or another gear, the gear may not change and the car could roll away.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byTo own a slice of two of the hottest tech start-ups going public, investors will have to give up equal voting power. By Peter EavisThe initial public offerings of Lyft and Pinterest will give investors the chance to buy into young, fast-growing companies led by founders with ambitious visions.But to get a piece of that action, investors will have to give up something big: an equal say in how the companies are run.Lyft, a ride-share company, and Pinterest, a social media network, will deprive their new shareholders of full voting rights when they go public in the coming days and weeks. Both companies plan to issue shares to a small number of insiders that have far more voting power than the shares everyone else will own.The use of two classes of shares has become increasingly popular among Silicon Valley start-ups going public. But such share structures have also prompted a backlash. Big investors, corporate-governance experts and even some tech executives warn that the issuance of super-voting shares undermines the system of accountability that has long been a pillar of public stock markets.Still, the Lyft and Pinterest offerings show that the desire to retain control after going public remains strong.Both Pinterest and Lyft are issuing two classes of stock, one that gives its holders 20 votes each and another, owned by outside investors, that will have one vote each.In Lyft’s case, the two founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, will control 49 percent of the company’s voting power, while holding just under 5 percent of the overall shares. Pinterest has not yet disclosed numbers needed to do a similar breakdown. Google opted for a dual-class structure as it went public in 2004, when it was fairly unusual for tech companies to do so. Facebook issued shares that gave control to its founders in its 2012 I.P.O. Snap, a social media company, sold shares to the public in 2017 with no voting rights, which prompted an outcry. But that hasn’t slowed their adoption. Last year, nearly two-thirds of technology companies going public had more than one class of shares, compared with a quarter five years earlier, according to data from Dealogic.And it’s not just technology companies that have embraced maintaining control. Levi Strauss, which went public last week, has shares that put most of the voting power in the hands of its founder’s descendants. And some media companies, The New York Times Company included, have special shares that give control to their holders.Uber may buck this trend, though. The ride-sharing company is preparing to make its public market debut this year and is expected to do so with one class of stock.As owners of a company, shareholders expect to have some sway over management. Full voting rights give them a greater voice in who’s on the board and how much executives get paid, and on big decisions, like whether to sell the company. Diminishing public holders’ voting rights can give insiders too much power and insulate executives who make poor decisions. Strong boards, as well as the looming threat of activist investors, do a lot to assure top executives are responsive, says Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, an online real estate brokerage. “The feeling that I serve at the pleasure of the board, that it is a privilege to work at Redfin, is fundamental to this company and the best of business culture,” he said.It’s hard to say definitively whether companies with unequal voting rights perform better or worse over time. Google has grown strongly over the years, but so have Apple, Amazon and Microsoft, which don’t give special control to insiders. Viacom’s stock has done poorly while CBS’s has done quite well; Sumner M. Redstone, with the help of his daughter, Shari Redstone, controls both companies through voting shares. Much also depends on the type of control a company grants. Robert J. Jackson Jr., a commissioner at the Securities and Exchange Commission, has cited analysis showing that companies that give control to insiders in perpetuity ended up with lower valuations on the stock market than those that planned to get rid of unequal voting rights after a certain period.The question of control may become crucial when a company gets into trouble. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, faltered in his response to abuse of the company’s network and data. Shareholder advisory groups last year pressed for changes that they said would improve governance, including setting up a special risk committee on the board, but they did not get the necessary votes.  Mr. Zuckerberg enjoys the protection of powerful voting shares. Facebook did not respond to a request for comment.Perhaps the biggest is that they can shield executives from pressures to bolster a company’s performance in the near term and give them more freedom to make investments that take time to pay off. Google has made that argument.Of course, it is possible for companies that don’t issue special controlling shares to shrug off the “short-termism” of the stock market. Amazon has plowed significant sums into new businesses for years and is among the most valuable companies in the world. But companies at a vulnerable stage in their development may benefit from giving control to their leaders as they pursue their visions for their companies. Lyft, for instance, is planning big investments in self-driving vehicle technology, and the company’s stock may suffer if they don’t immediately bear fruit. And though Facebook’s controlling shares may have helped set the stage for its stumbles, the arrangement may also have helped the company respond. Since the scandals, Facebook has increased its spending to safeguard its network. Wall Street analysts have at times questioned the need for such costs, but Mr. Zuckerberg can mostly ignore them because of the voting power in his hands.Some efforts to address the use of high-voting shares have focused on how long these classes of shares exist. Critics oppose arrangements that allow the holders to keep control until they die, or those that allow the shares to be passed on to descendants. These create what Mr. Jackson, the S.E.C. commissioner, has called “corporate royalty.”Instead of granting long-term or perpetual control, a few companies have adopted structures that convert controlling shares into ordinary shares after a certain number of years. But this approach has failed to gain traction. In the three years through 2018, only 29 percent of the I.P.O.s with special controlling shares had a provision that allow their superior voting power to expire after a certain period, according to a New York Times analysis of data provided by the Council of Institutional Investors, a group that has criticized unequal voting rights.Lyft’s controlling shares won’t lose any of their power over time, but the company has attempted to bolster its corporate governance by having an independent chairman. Other companies have taken this step, including Snap, but it hasn’t been enough to satisfy critics of unequal share classes. “A lot of companies think an independent chair is a good idea, but is that person going to last forever?” Mr. Jackson said, “Is there anything to stop them from removing the independent chair?”Pinterest has a seven-year time limit, but it only kicks in if the holders of the high-voting shares own less than half the shares they had just before I.P.O. “I would not count that as a true, time-based sunset,” said Andrew Winden, a fellow at Stanford Law School Rock Center for Corporate Governance, referring to phaseout provisions. Peter Eavis is a New York based reporter covering companies and markets. Before coming to the Times in 2012, he worked at The Wall Street Journal.   @uwsgeezer Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byDeep learning, deep insights, deep artificial minds — the list goes on and on. But with unprecedented promise comes some unprecedented peril.By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistAround the end of each year major dictionaries declare their “word of the year.” Last year, for instance, the most looked-up word at Merriam-Webster.com was “justice.” Well, even though it’s early, I’m ready to declare the word of the year for 2019.The word is “deep.”Why? Because recent advances in the speed and scope of digitization, connectivity, big data and artificial intelligence are now taking us “deep” into places and into powers that we’ve never experienced before — and that governments have never had to regulate before. I’m talking about deep learning, deep insights, deep surveillance, deep facial recognition, deep voice recognition, deep automation and deep artificial minds.Some of these technologies offer unprecedented promise and some unprecedented peril — but they’re all now part of our lives. Everything is going deep.Which is why it may not be an accident that one of the biggest hit songs today is “Shallow,” from the movie “A Star Is Born.” The main refrain, sung by Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper, is: “I’m off the deep end, watch as I dive in. … We’re far from the shallow now.”We sure are. But the lifeguard is still on the beach and — here’s what’s really scary — he doesn’t know how to swim! More about that later. For now, how did we get so deep down where the sharks live?The short answer: Technology moves up in steps, and each step, each new platform, is usually biased toward a new set of capabilities. Around the year 2000 we took a huge step up that was biased toward connectivity, because of the explosion of fiber-optic cable, wireless and satellites.Suddenly connectivity became so fast, cheap, easy for you and ubiquitous that it felt like you could touch someone whom you could never touch before and that you could be touched by someone who could never touch you before.Around 2007, we took another big step up. The iPhone, sensors, digitization, big data, the internet of things, artificial intelligence and cloud computing melded together and created a new platform that was biased toward abstracting complexity at a speed, scope and scale we’d never experienced before. So many complex things became simplified. Complexity became so fast, free, easy to use and invisible that soon with one touch on Uber’s app you could page a taxi, direct a taxi, pay a taxi, rate a taxi driver and be rated by a taxi driver.Over the last decade, these advances in the speed of connectivity and the elimination of complexity have grown exponentially. Because as big data got really big, as broadband got really fast, as algorithms got really smart, as 5G got actually deployed, artificial intelligence got really intelligent. So now, with no touch — but just a voice command or machines acting autonomously — we can go so much deeper in so many areas.Scientists and doctors can now find the needle in the haystack of health data as the norm, not the exception, and therefore see certain disease patterns that were never apparent before. Machines can recognize your face so accurately that the Chinese government can punish you for jaywalking in Beijing, using street cameras, and you will never encounter a police officer. Indeed, with today’s facial recognition technology, I can dispense with the card reader at my office’s security gate and instead use each employee’s face as an ID. And cars can drive on their own.DeepMind, the artificial intelligence arm of Google’s parent, developed an A.I. program, AlphaGo, that has now defeated the world’s top human players of the ancient strategy game Go — which is much more complex than chess — by learning from human play. As The Times reported, DeepMind “showed yet another way that computers could be developed to perform better than humans in highly complex tasks” and to “mimic the way the brain functions.” DeepMind’s next breakthrough, AlphaZero, did not even need to learn from humans. It learned even faster by repeatedly playing against itself!Today “virtual agents” — using conversational interfaces powered by artificial intelligence — can increasingly understand your intent when you call the bank, credit card company or insurance company for service, just by hearing your voice. It means machines can answer so many more questions than nonmachines, also known as “humans.” The percentage of calls a chatbot, or virtual agent, is able to handle without turning the caller over to a person is called its “containment rate,” and these rates are steadily soaring. Soon, automated systems will be so humanlike that they will have to self-identify as machines.Automation is also going deep, fast. The Times’s Kevin Roose quoted Mohit Joshi, the president of Infosys, a technology firm that helps other businesses automate their operations, as saying in Davos last week: “People are looking to achieve very big numbers. Earlier they had incremental, 5 to 10 percent goals in reducing their work force. Now they’re saying, ‘Why can’t we do it with 1 percent of the people we have?’”But bad guys, who are always early adopters, also see the same potential to go deep in wholly new ways. They can fake your face and voice so well that they can create a YouTube video that will go viral of you saying racist things or make it look like the president of the United States just announced a nuclear attack on Russia. They can use technology to fake a bank manager’s voice so well that it can call your grandmother, and, with a voice command, ask her to transfer $10,000 to an account in Switzerland and she’ll do it — and you’ll never catch them in time.That’s why the adjective that so many people are affixing to all of these new capabilities to convey their awesome power is “deep.”On Jan. 20, The London Observer looked at Harvard Business School professor Shoshana Zuboff’s new book, the title of which perfectly describes the deep dark waters we’ve entered: “The Age of Surveillance Capital.”“Surveillance capitalism,” Zuboff wrote, “unilaterally claims human experience as free raw material for translation into behavioral data. Although some of these data are applied to service improvement, the rest are declared as a proprietary behavioral surplus, fed into advanced manufacturing processes known as ‘machine intelligence,’ and fabricated into prediction products that anticipate what you will do now, soon and later. Finally, these prediction products are traded in a new kind of marketplace that I call behavioral futures markets. Surveillance capitalists have grown immensely wealthy from these trading operations, for many companies are willing to lay bets on our future behavior.”Unfortunately, we have not developed the regulations or governance, or scaled the ethics, to manage a world of such deep powers, deep interactions and deep potential abuses.Two quotes tell that story: Last April, Senator Orrin Hatch was questioning Facebook C.E.O. Mark Zuckerberg during a joint hearing of the commerce and judiciary committees. At one point Hatch asked Zuckerberg, “So, how do you sustain a business model in which users don’t pay for your service?”Zuckerberg, clearly trying to stifle a laugh, replied, “Senator, we run ads.” Hatch did not seem to understand that Facebook’s business model is to mine users’ data and then run targeted ads — and Hatch was one of Facebook’s regulators.But then Zuckerberg was also clueless about how deep the powers of the Facebook platform had gone — deep enough that a few smart Russian hackers could manipulate it to help Donald Trump win the presidency.When faced with evidence that fake news spread on Facebook influenced the outcome of the 2016 election, Zuckerberg dismissed that notion as a “pretty crazy idea.” It turns out that it was happening at an industrial scale and he later had to apologize.Regulations often lag behind new technologies, but when they move this fast and cut this deep, that lag can be really dangerous. I wish I thought that catch-up was around the corner. I don’t. Our national discussion has never been more shallow — reduced to 280 characters.This has created an opening and burgeoning demand for political, social and religious leaders, government institutions and businesses that can go deep — that can validate what is real and offer the public deep truths, deep privacy protections and deep trust.But deep trust and deep loyalty cannot be forged overnight. They take time. That’s one reason this old newspaper I work for — the Gray Lady — is doing so well today. Not all, but many people, are desperate for trusted navigators. Many will also look for that attribute in our next president, because they sense that deep changes are afoot. It is unsettling, and yet, there’s no swimming back. We are, indeed, far from the shallow now.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bySteve Jobs wanted to put a ding in the universe. Today, Apple wants to ding your pocketbook. By Farhad ManjooOpinion ColumnistThe Steve Jobs Theater on Apple’s spendy new campus in Cupertino, Calif., is a majestic temple to pomp. An ethereal glass-and-marble cylinder set high on a serene hill, the venue feels like the architectural manifestation of the Apple co-founder’s famous “reality-distortion field.” It is an edifice meant to recall those moments when Mr. Jobs, smirking joyfully, would bound up to the stage, teasingly pull a black shroud off some new invention and instantly alter your picture of the future.And so it was meant to go once more last week, when Apple invited journalists and celebrities to an event billed as “a Think Different production.”Some different thinking did seem in order. Since becoming the first trillion-dollar corporation last summer, Apple has battled a souring assessment on Wall Street. The iPhone is the most profitable product in the history of business, but more than a decade after its debut, pretty much everyone on the planet who can afford one already has one, and many customers see little reason to upgrade.[Farhad Manjoo answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]So now, instead of selling better stuff to more people, Apple’s new plan is to sell more stuff to the same people. “Today is going to be a very different kind of event,” said Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, taking the stage.It was not. From start to finish, Apple’s affair was a brushed-aluminum homage to sameness — a parade of services that start-ups and big rivals had done earlier, polished with an Apple-y sheen of design and marketing. Among other offerings, Apple showed off a service for subscribing to news on your phone and a credit card, and it offered vague details about a still-in-development TV service involving Steven Spielberg and Oprah Winfrey (who are not exactly edgy or up-and-coming).None of these efforts look terrible. Some, like the news service, might be handy. Yet they are all so trifling and derivative. As the analyst Ben Thompson noted, Apple’s crush of me-too announcements falls far short of Mr. Jobs’s goal of putting “a ding in the universe.” As I watched Apple’s event, I felt the future shrink a little. In its gilded middle age, Apple is turning into something like a digital athleisure brand, stamping out countless upscale accessories for customers who love its one big thing, a company that has lost sight of the universe and is content merely to put a ding in your pocketbook.In an ordinary time, such an ordinary corporate vision might be fine. But these aren’t ordinary times, and Apple is no ordinary company. Here is a corporation with the resources of an empire, the mass devotion of a religion and the operational capacity of a war machine. Under Mr. Cook, Apple has cannily avoided every minefield in tech and politics over the past couple of years, winning a windfall from President Trump’s tax cut, avoiding getting burned in his trade war — all while enjoying the loyalty of every moneyed hipster and suburbanite on earth.Yet, all around Apple, the digital world is burning up. Indirectly, Apple’s devices are implicated in the rise of misinformation and distraction, the erosion of privacy and the breakdown of democracy. None of these grand problems is Apple’s fault, but given its centrality to the business, Apple has the capacity and wherewithal to mitigate them. But instead of rising to the moment by pushing a fundamentally new and safer vision of the future, Apple is shrinking from it.Consider privacy. Mr. Cook is one of the tech industry’s strongest champions of the sanctity of our private information, and Apple has pushed for more stringent privacy regulations — which is just about the least Apple could do. But what if it thought a little bigger? For example, it could directly take on Google and Facebook — the demons who rule our era of surveillance capitalism — by placing far more stringent restrictions on their culture of rampant invasion, or at least removing them from preferential places in the iPhone. (Google will pay Apple an estimated $12 billion in 2019 to act as the default search engine on the iPhone.)More than restricting the present, Apple could deploy its billions to build a better digital future. In particular, I wonder why Apple isn’t working feverishly to create new privacy-minded versions of social-media services the world needs.Take messaging, for starters. There is a strong moral case for Apple to turn iMessage, its encrypted messaging app, into an open standard available to anyone, even Android users, who currently lack many privacy-minded messaging apps that aren’t run by an ad company or aren’t friendly with the Chinese government.There might be a business case, too. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder, recently reoriented his company toward messaging. As Will Oremus noted in Slate, the move brings Facebook into direct competition with Apple. This presents an opportunity for Apple to turn a cold war into a hot one; Apple could swiftly undercut Mr. Zuckerberg’s ambition by freeing iMessage and bringing the gift of privacy to the non-Apple world.Here are some other big ideas: Apple could embark on a long-term project to create a privacy-minded search engine to rival Google’s. It could build an ad-free Instagram (its founders just left Facebook in frustration). It could create a YouTube that isn’t a haven for neo-Nazis. Some (or many) of these may be dumb ideas — ideas that would ruin Apple, or at the very least kneecap its short-run profits. But they are at least big ideas; they match in scope and daring what Apple was created to do. Let other companies handle streaming entertainment. To paraphrase a wise man: Does Mr. Cook want to sell prestige TV for the rest of his life, or does he want to change the world?The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Farhad Manjoo became an opinion columnist for The Times in 2018. Before that, he wrote the State of the Art column. He is the author of “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.”  @fmanjoo • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A fight has broken out between TPG and Bill McGlashan, the senior executive caught up in a huge college bribery scandal, over how he left the $103 billion investment giant, Michael de la Merced of DealBook reports.Mr. McGlashan had initially been put on leave by TPG after being accused of collaborating with William Singer, who ran the college preparatory business at the center of the scandal. Prosecutors say that Mr. Singer advised the financier to claim that his son had learning disabilities, and that Mr. McGlashan paid $50,000 to Mr. Singer’s charity.TPG said it fired him for cause yesterday. “We believe the behavior described to be inexcusable and antithetical to the values of our entire organization,” the firm said in a statement.TPG told employees and partners that it learned about the accusations against Mr. McGlashan only after prosecutors unsealed their case, according to an internal note reviewed by DealBook.But Mr. McGlashan said that he had already resigned. “I am deeply sorry this very difficult situation may interfere with the work to which I have devoted my life,” he wrote in a note.Emails between Mr. McGlashan and top TPG executives, provided by his spokesman, appear to confirm that. Mr. McGlashan emailed his resignation at 1:02 p.m. yesterday, according to the correspondence. At 2:03 p.m., Jon Winkelried, one of TPG’s co-C.E.O.s, replied, acknowledging receipt of the resignation — but he also included a notice of termination.At 2:20 p.m., Mr. McGlashan responded, “I am perplexed by your attempt to terminate me because, as you acknowledged in your email, you had already received my resignation.”It’s unclear what is at stake financially for Mr. McGlashan in terms of his TPG severance. In his email, Mr. Winkelried wrote to Mr. McGlashan, “We will be in touch to advise you of the economic consequences of the termination of your employment.”A spokesman for TPG declined to comment on the emails.More: The man who tipped off authorities to the college admissions scandal was reportedly a financier who was being investigated in a securities fraud case. And here’s a reminder why paying bribes to get your child into college is a federal crime.Last week, Mark Zuckerberg announced that Facebook would pivot toward privacy. With two of the company’s top executives leaving just days later, it appears the change has had an immediate impact.The two executives — Chris Cox, Facebook’s chief product officer, who is widely regarded as the company’s No. 3, and Chris Daniels, the head of WhatsApp — announced yesterday that they were to leave the company. Their departure comes “after disagreements with Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive, over the social network’s future direction,” according to Mike Isaac of the NYT.“The differences stemmed from Mr. Zuckerberg’s asserting control over his company and its apps — Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger — by rolling out a plan to integrate the services into a single privacy-focused platform, according to six people involved in the situation,” he adds.Several executives at Facebook feared that knitting together the apps could take a toll on the popularity and growth of their individual products, according to Mr. Isaac. They were also reportedly worried that they could lose autonomy and power. Traces of those sentiments could be seen in a public statement issued by Mr. Cox.“Facebook has become Zuckerberg’s company now more than ever,” Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion writes. “Whether that’s good for the company or for the company’s billions of users — we’ll see.”In the wake of two fatal crashes within five months that involved its 737 Max airplanes, the company is reeling.Boeing will suspend delivery of its 737 Max jets, it announced yesterday, but continue to produce them. It currently builds 52 aircraft a month, many of which are Max models, and entirely shutting down production would prove costly.But the policy may only last so long. Boeing’s production facility in Renton, Wash., has only limited capacity for storing the airplanes, according to the WSJ. Boeing may, however, be able to apply for special permits to fly the planes to other storage sites, according to Reuters.Meanwhile, big questions hang over the Max’s software. Pilots from Southwest Airlines and American Airlines requested software updates for some of the 737 Max’s automated systems last year, reports the NYT. They were promised updates within six weeks, one pilot said, but they have still not arrived. Similarities between the two recent crashes point to potential problems with the automated system that requires the update.And the U.S. Air Force has also lost trust in Boeing. In a case unrelated to the Max debacle, Air Force officials said that quality control issues with a new aerial refueling tanker caused it to suspend deliveries in February.British lawmakers yesterday voted to postpone the country’s departure from the E.U., but narrowly failed to wrest control of the Brexit process from Prime Minister Theresa May’s government, write Ellen Barry and Stephen Castle of the NYT.“Mrs. May fended off — by just two votes — a remarkable power grab by lawmakers frustrated at months of political deadlock that has left the country in limbo with just 15 days to go before its scheduled departure from the bloc. They later voted by 412 to 202 for a motion that means that Britain will almost certainly not leave the E.U. as scheduled on March 29.”“What remains unclear now is how long the delay will be. Mrs. May plans to hold a third vote on her unpopular plan for withdrawal, despite have suffered two staggering defeats on it already. If the prime minister should succeed in a third attempt, she would then request a short delay — no more than three months — from E.U. leaders.”“But the motion noted that should her plan go down to defeat once again, Mrs. May might have to ask European leaders for a much longer delay, with unknown consequences.”More: Brexit’s importance to the global economy may have been overstated.Tulane’s Corporate Law Institute, a conference held every spring in New Orleans, is where the mergers-and-acquisitions world gathers to talk shop. Usually, it’s about how good business is — but a sense of unease has intruded this year’s festivities, Michael de la Merced of DealBook reports.Bankers and lawyers should be celebrating. Last year’s $4.2 trillion in global announced deals was the third-best year ever, according to Citigroup. Nearly every industry enjoyed a rise in deal-making.And M. & A. should keep rolling on. Mark Shafir, the co-head of mergers and acquisitions at Citigroup, and others at the conference noted that takeover financing remains cheap, shareholders seem to support sensible deals and shareholder activists are continuing to push companies into transactions.But “there is no doubt that we are in a much less bullish environment for M. & A. than a year ago,” Mr. Shafir said. Among the pressures on deal-making:• There are fears about a potential recession, the ongoing trade wars and the persistent worry that the stock market will suffer like it did late last year.• Regulators are a big issue too, especially the concern that they could be used as political cudgels. One of the big topics at the conference was the growing importance of overseers like Cfius, the American government panel that reviews cross-border deals for national security concerns.• And then there’s the natural cycle of deal-making. Booms tend to be followed by big drops in volumes, and this cycle has gone on longer than most, Mr. Shafir said.The Connecticut Supreme Court cleared the way for a lawsuit against the companies that manufactured and sold the semiautomatic rifle used in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012, Rick Rojas and Kristin Hussey of the NYT report.The ruling allows a case, brought by victims’ families, to go around the immunity that Congress granted gun companies to shield them from litigation when their weapons are used in a crime. That leaves open the potential for Remington, which made the rifle used in the attack, to be held liable.Lawyers for the families argued that advertising campaigns for guns appeared to be “courting” troubled young men, like Adam Lanza, who carried out the Sandy Hook shooting. In a 4-3 ruling, justices “found that the sweeping federal protections did not prevent the families from bringing a lawsuit based on wrongful marketing claims,” Mr. Rojas and Ms. Hussey write.“The decision represents a significant development in the long-running battle between gun control advocates and the gun lobby,” Mr. Rojas and Ms. Hussey add. And it could chart a “possible legal road map for victims’ relatives and survivors from other mass shootings.”President Trump appears to have reeled in his claim on Wednesday of being “not in a rush whatsoever” to reach a trade deal with China.“We’ll have news on China. Probably one way or the other, we’re going to know over the next three to four weeks,” Mr. Trump told reporters yesterday, according to CNBC. He added that China had been “very responsible and very reasonable.”Such optimism may have been helped along by the news that China made “last-minute changes to a proposed foreign-investment law,” in an attempt to “address U.S. complaints about forced technology transfer,” according to the WSJ. Intellectual property concerns have been a major part of the trade dispute between America and China.But a final agreement is still some way off.  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said yesterday that a proposed meeting between Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China won’t happen this month because there is still more work to do. Sources tell Bloomberg it could happen in April.Elon Musk last night unveiled a new seven-seat compact sport-utility vehicle called the Model Y, Neal E. Boudette and Raymond Zhong of the NYT write:• “The Model Y will be available beginning next year, the company said, at prices ranging from $39,000 to $60,000, depending on the model, with a $2,500 deposit.”• “A long-range version will be able to drive 300 miles on a single charge, it said, while the $60,000 Performance model will have a top speed of 150 miles per hour.”• “‘It has the functionality of an S.U.V., but it will ride like a sports car,’ Mr. Musk said. ‘This thing will be really tight in corners.’”The unveiling “comes as Tesla confronts sales challenges,” Mr. Boudette and Mr. Zhong write. Sales of the Model S and Model X have been flattening, and its push to sell the Model 3 for $35,000 remains shrouded in uncertainty as the company works out how to cut costs to make that pricing possible.Andrew Weissmann, one of Robert Mueller’s top deputies, is said to be leaving the special counsel’s office.Lee Fixel, a partner at Tiger Global Management, is leaving the hedge fund in June.The meat-substitute start-up Impossible Foods hired Dennis Woodside, who was Dropbox’s C.O.O., as its president.Tesla named Vaibhav Taneja as its new chief accounting officer.Goldman Sachs plans to cut 65 jobs because of “economic” factors.Deals• Uber reportedly plans to publicly disclose its I.P.O. prospectus in April. (Reuters)• A federal judge has ordered a hearing on April 5 to consider the government’s settlement allowing CVS’s takeover of Aetna to proceed. (Reuters)• Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase said that European banks need to merge with cross-border rivals to compete globally. (Bloomberg)• SmileDirectClub, which sells at-home teeth-straightening kits, has reportedly picked JPMorgan to lead its I.P.O. this year. (Axios)Politics and policy• The Senate voted to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency over a border wall. Trump’s response was “VETO!” — which would be the first of his presidency. (NYT, @realDonaldTrump)• The House voted 420 to 0 to demand that Robert Mueller’s forthcoming report be released publicly. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, blocked a similar motion in the Senate. (NYT)• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that he “can’t speculate” on how the White House will respond to Democratic requests for President Trump’s tax returns. (Politico)Tech• Spotify’s C.E.O. warned that the streaming service would need to raise prices if Apple continues to take a 30 percent fee from companies who use its App Store. Apple said that its policies were fair and that Spotify was trying to bolster its financial results. (FT, NYT)• Facebook blamed a “server configuration change” for disruption to its services this week — a stark reminder that even powerful internet companies can still be crippled by human error. (NYT)• The E.U.’s competition commissioner is reportedly set to issue Google with another antitrust fine relating to its AdSense business next week. (FT)• Huawei’s C.F.O. wanted to quit her job just before she was arrested in Canada, according to the company’s founder. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Shares in G.E. jumped 2.8 percent on Thursday despite its warning of falling profits and a description of 2019 as a “reset” year. (WSJ)• Economists have lowered their forecasts for U.S. employment and economic growth in the first quarter. (WSJ)• China’s slowdown is spreading from factories to offices, and its second-highest official has promised corporate tax cuts and deregulation to ease the problem. (NYT)• The S.E.C. accused Volkswagen of undertaking a “massive fraud” over its diesel emissions scandal. (NYT)• How TV shows like “Succession” and “Billions” depict the lifestyle of the 1 percent. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Britain proposed new online safety laws on Monday that would slap penalties on social media companies and technology firms if they fail to protect their users from harmful content.Easy access to damaging material particularly among young people has caused growing concern worldwide and came into the spotlight in Britain after the death of 14-year-old schoolgirl Molly Russell, which her parents said came after she had viewed online material on depression and suicide.Governments across the world are wrestling over how to better control content on social media platforms, often blamed for encouraging abuse, the spread of online pornography, and for influencing or manipulating voters.Global worries were recently stoked by the live streaming of the mass shooting at a mosque in New Zealand on one of Facebook's platforms, after which Australia said it would fine social media and web hosting companies and imprison executives if violent content is not removed ""expeditiously"". In a policy paper widely trailed in British media, the government said it would look into possibly using fines, blocking access to websites, and imposing liability on senior tech company management for failing to limit the distribution of harmful content. It would also set up a regulator to police the rules. TechUK, an industry trade group, said the paper was a significant step forward, but one which needed to be firmed up during its 12-week consultation. It said some aspects of the government's approach were too vague.""It is vital that the new framework is effective, proportionate and predictable,"" techUK said in a statement, adding not all concerns could be addressed through regulation.Facebook said it was looking forward to working with the government to ensure new regulations were effective, repeating its founder Mark Zuckerberg's line that regulations were needed to have a standard approach across platforms.COMPLEX ISSUES Rebecca Stimson, Facebook's head of UK public policy, said any new rules should strike a balance between protecting society and supporting innovation and free speech.""These are complex issues to get right and we look forward to working with the government and parliament to ensure new regulations are effective,"" Stimson said in a statement. Prime Minister Theresa May said that while the Internet could be brilliant at connecting people, it had not done enough to protect users, especially children and young people.""That is not good enough, and it is time to do things differently,"" May said in a statement. ""We have listened to campaigners and parents, and are putting a legal duty of care on internet companies to keep people safe."" The duty of care would make companies take more responsibility for the safety of users and tackle harm caused by content or activity on their services. The regulator, funded by industry in the medium term, will set clear safety standards.A committee of lawmakers has also demanded more is done to make political advertising and campaigning on social media more transparent.""It is vital that our electoral law is brought up to date as soon as possible, so that social media users know who is contacting them with political messages and why,"" said Conservative Damian Collins, who chairs the parliamentary committee for digital, culture, media and sport.""Should there be an early election, then emergency legislation should be introduced to achieve this."" (Reporting by Elizabeth Piper and Paul Sandle; Editing by David Holmes)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Jamie CondliffeHi. I’m Jamie Condliffe. Greetings from London. Here’s a look at the week’s tech news.There is little as fashionable in 2019 as the desire to curb Big Tech’s power. But knowing how far regulators should go in putting limits on Silicon Valley’s largest companies isn’t straightforward.At one extreme, there are calls to break up Big Tech.  Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines during the week when she called for just that. Ms. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, argued that companies shouldn’t offer their own products on platforms they controlled (like Apple’s selling apps on its App Store — something Spotify called out to European regulators on Wednesday). She also said she would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions, such as Facebook’s takeovers of Instagram and WhatsApp.Her pitch isn’t perfect, as The New York Times’s Kevin Roose pointed out — it’s too generic, misses easy wins and overlooks some big issues. But it is a bold, inspiring rally cry for Big Tech’s biggest critics.At the other end of the spectrum: tech companies. Ideally, the likes of Facebook and Google would love to perpetually operate in the lightly regulated world that helped them grow so quickly. But even Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, acknowledged that it was “inevitable that there will be some regulation” when he testified to the House Energy and Commerce Committee in April.There’s plenty of room between those extremes. Take, for example, a report published Wednesday by the British government, which called for an overhaul of antitrust policies for Big Tech. Its main proposal: that a new regulator identify companies with “strategic market status,” then block some activities — such as promoting their own products or services in search results over those belonging to competitors (hello, Google!).That, the report’s authors say, is a “more pro-business and pro-consumer solution” than “changing antitrust law to drive breakup” of businesses.So who’s right? Mr. Zuckerberg, at least when he says regulatory intervention is inevitable. There’s strong bipartisan support for such regulation. As for where a line should be drawn, that’s harder to say.Breaking up big companies isn’t easy: It’s expensive and takes a long time. And it doesn’t always go to plan. The last notable attempt to do so, when a judge ruled two decades ago that Microsoft be cleaved for having violated antitrust law, was overturned on appeal. So Ms. Warren could have her work cut out for her.But it may ultimately become a question of balancing ambition with need. Is it better to gamble on breaking up big companies, or guarantee that new rules curb some of their behavior? That’s something that lawmakers are going to have to wrestle with.When OpenAI was founded three years ago, it had a huge goal: to build artificial intelligence software that was as capable as the human brain. Its founders said that because it was a nonprofit with noble ambitions — it had $1 billion in funding from backers to pay its way — the public could trust it to build that so-called general artificial intelligence.Only, $1 billion doesn’t go far with goals like that. Huge computing resources and big salaries to attract talent burn through cash. Actually, it turns out, some profits might be useful.So, Wired reported, Open AI announced that it was changing its business model. To keep up with Facebook and Google, it created a OpenAI L.P., a company that can take money from investors that need to return a profit, like venture funds. That will make it easier to raise funds. Down the line, it might monetize some of the technology it develops. But the company decided to cap the returns that investors will see — to $100 for every dollar invested.One way to think of that figure is that OpenAI deems a 100-times return to be an ethical margin on building a general A.I. — enough to make it a feasible endeavor, but not so much as to tar it with the Big Tech brush. That reasoning clearly holds if you inhabit Silicon Valley. But it will be interesting to see if that profit cap is enough to put everyone at ease.On March 12, 1989, Tim Berners-Lee proposed an idea for linking digital files that his boss, Mike Sendall, called “vague but exciting.” It ultimately became the World Wide Web, and 30 years later we’re left with much to love — and hate — about its existence.At an event at London’s Science Museum on Tuesday to mark the web’s passage into its fourth decade, Mr. Berners-Lee was asked what it might look like in another 30 years. Here’s what he said:■ “It’s not, I think, for us to try and guess.”■ “Look at what’s happened over the last 30 years. The web has changed really dramatically, and a lot of that we couldn’t have predicted.”■ “What we can do is we can say what web we want.”■ “We want a web which is open. We want a web which is royalty-free. We want a web which is discrimination-free.”Worthy goals. And in an article he wrote this past week, Mr. Berners-Lee laid out steps that may be required to ensure they happen:■ “Governments must translate laws and regulations for the digital age. They must ensure markets remain competitive, innovative and open.”■ “Companies must do more to ensure their pursuit of short-term profit is not at the expense of human rights, democracy, scientific fact or public safety.”■ “Platforms and products must be designed with privacy, diversity and security in mind. “■ “And most important of all, citizens must hold companies and governments accountable.”Thirty years on, Mr. Sendall’s analysis might apply equally well to this proposal, too.Elon Musk really dislikes whistle-blowers. According to Businessweek, Mr. Musk, the Tesla chief executive, set out to destroy one employee who leaked details about raw materials wastage at the company.How does Google pay off executives accused of misconduct? Handsomely: Two shared a total of $135 million, according to details that emerged from a lawsuit during the week.Who will fund the next wave of tech start-ups? That’ll be the millionaires who are created when companies like Airbnb and Uber go public.You should care about TikTok. You might never use it, but it could reshape social media as you know it.Scientists dropped a smartphone into a blender. Because that, apparently, is the best way to work out how much cobalt, gold and other substances are in there.How to disappear (almost) completely: A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps to going dark while staying online.Silicon Valley wants to build a monument. To Silicon Valley, obviously.Jamie Condliffe is editor of the DealBook newsletter. He also writes the weekly Bits newsletter. Follow him on Twitter here: @jme_c.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Nicholas ThompsonThis review was updated by the reviewer on Feb. 14 to reflect questions that arose after the review’s publication.MERCHANTS OF TRUTH The Business of News and the Fight for Facts By Jill Abramson 534 pp. Simon & Schuster. $30.In the early spring of 2014, A. G. Sulzberger, then an editor on the metro desk of The New York Times, handed Jill Abramson, the executive editor, a copy of the “innovation report.” Sulzberger and a team of colleagues had been working on the document for months, and they’d produced a vivisection of the paper. The Times had been slow to adapt to the emergence of new digital platforms; it had thumbed its nose at the internet and thus the future. The report was insightful, enlightened and tough. And it drove Abramson over the edge.She was upset because she didn’t think it credited her enough. Not a word of praise was offered for her having helped unite nytimes.com and the main newsroom. Worse, the report also encouraged The Times to loosen the barriers dividing the editorial and business sides. That, to her, was a road to perdition. “For me, it was an epic defeat,” she writes. She had wanted to be the executive editor who protected the newsroom from “crass commercialism”; she had wanted to avoid “metric charts influencing editors to promote stories according to their traffic.”She raged quietly and plotted.In May of that year, she made her move — and completely bungled it. She offered a managing editor position in charge of digital to Janine Gibson, an editor at The Guardian. Abramson then deceived her deputy, Dean Baquet, about the offer; when he found out the truth he was furious. A few days later, the publisher, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., A. G.’s father, fired Abramson. Baquet became executive editor.The episode, in more ways than one, set Abramson on a path that would produce “Merchants of Truth,” her book examining four news organizations trying to sail through the storm of digital transformation: BuzzFeed, Vice, The Washington Post and The Times. It’s partly a memoir and partly a work of investigative reporting. But it’s mostly an audit of an industry that has spent much of the past decade wetting its pants in fear of digital technology and then worrying about whether to go to the dry cleaners. And it’s a damn good read.The book tells the story in 13 chapters, three on each protagonist-company and one on Facebook. And it begins with BuzzFeed and its shrewd leader Jonah Peretti, the industry’s stalwart in figuring out how to profit off the ways modern technology taps into America’s id. The company he creates is a pioneer: at entertainment, at clickbait, at blurring lines between advertising and news, and at persuading other publishers to give him their precious data for almost nothing. He masters Facebook and quickly realizes one of the central lessons for modern media: New social platforms aren’t just distribution platforms for your old stuff — like your website or your newspapers. They are entirely new places, with new rules, for you to create new content.Meanwhile, as Peretti builds up an empire based on lists about basset hounds, he also creates a serious operation, BuzzFeed News, that churns out scoops and serious stories, including the first revelations about the role of fake news during the 2016 election. Peretti starts this money-losing wing, Abramson writes, as a way to create cachet for the money-winning side of his empire. The result is roughly similar to McDonald’s including slices of apples in Happy Meals.Next we turn to Vice, the hard-partying empire of cool that in 2017 turned its founder Shane Smith into a billionaire. Abramson is impressed by some of the journalism and perhaps even by some of Smith’s famous bluster. But she has a keen eye for the central irony at the core of Vice. The company created branded content for giant advertisers — and killed stories that criticized them — at the same time that it cultivated an image of rebellion. It was giving the Man the finger while simultaneously massaging his back.Abramson also has her eyes trained on what she sees as the company’s sexism: At one point, she quotes The Baffler’s description of Vice as a “vertically integrated rape joke.” And she pushes forward with the tale of an executive who cheats on his wife with one of his underlings, and then annoys that girlfriend by kissing another producer, who, the story goes, has to fend him off with an umbrella.Abramson’s critique of Vice is cutting. But Vice also turned the knives around. After the book came out, a Vice News correspondent noted multiple places where the author had included material nearly identical to what had previously appeared in other publications. Abramson apologized, and noted that she had pointed to the original sources in her endnotes, just not in the proper place. She also said that some passages should have been marked as direct quotes. Abramson’s book tour was suddenly consumed by conversations parsing the definition of plagiarism.The third setting is The Washington Post, where our story begins with the company’s earnest patriarch, Donald E. Graham — clumsily betting on local news even as the revenue attached to it dries up, and cannily betting on Mark Zuckerberg, who reneges on a handshake deal that would have given Graham a stake in Zuckerberg’s fledgling company. Abramson describes Zuckerberg lying on a bathroom floor and crying with guilt after the betrayal. In retrospect, it’s hard not to think that the young C.E.O. would have been better off keeping his word and choosing the sensible, moral journalist over the venture capitalists.Eventually Graham sells to one of the few men richer than Zuckerberg, and the paper begins its new life. An engraving in the newsroom appears after Jeff Bezos takes over with the mantra “What’s dangerous is not to evolve.” The message is exactly right for the industry, and it works. Bezos focuses on the product and engineering departments at The Post, making the pages fast to load and the stories easy to read across platforms. Editorially, it essentially takes the inverse model of BuzzFeed, serving a side of clickbait with a main course of serious journalism. Most everything works, and soon after Bezos arrives The Post has even more readers than The Times.Last of course is The New York Times, a story that benefits immensely from Abramson’s inside dirt, her genuine admissions about the errors she made and the obvious delight she takes in settling scores. In fact, nothing seems to please her as much as the moments when she can stick her knives into Dean Baquet. At one point, she tells the tale of a reporter named Eric Lichtblau. He was upset that a piece of his on Trump and Russia had been delayed, and then watered down. After The Times’s public editor weighed in, Baquet emailed Lichtblau: “I hope your colleagues rip you a new asshole.” Abramson then publishes another internal email from Baquet that she’s been given, this one complaining about Times reporters who had disclosed confidential conversations about the Lichtblau article. “I guess I’m disappointed that this ended up in print,” Baquet writes — a message that Abramson herself has now immortalized in print. It’s hard to know who has the moral high ground in this fight. But I do look forward to the Abramson sections whenever Baquet writes his own memoirs.As the book ends, the digital pioneers are in tatters. Vice has lost its swagger amid its sexual harassment scandals and its readership is in decline. Facebook has abandoned BuzzFeed, and much of the rest of the publishing industry. Peretti, who has always seemed to know where the media are headed before the rest of the media, seems temporarily as shellshocked as his peers.Meanwhile, the winners appear to be The Post and, even more so, The New York Times. Or as Abramson writes in the conclusion, “Of all the executives who had faced the ferocious waters of the digital revolution, Arthur Sulzberger Jr. had come closest to crossing to safety.” And the reason for his success comes from developing new products that depended on both the reporting and business sides, and following the metric charts that told the paper what stories to run.The book ends in a double irony. It’s titled “Merchants of Truth,” but much of the discussion after publication has been about whether the author’s sourcing was truthful. Secondly, Abramson was, indirectly at least, fired because of her resistance to the “innovation report.” And now she’s produced a marvelous book about exactly how prescient the darn thing was.Nicholas Thompson is the editor in chief of Wired magazine.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike Ives and Raymond ZhongHONG KONG — Singapore introduced draft legislation on Monday that it said would combat false or misleading information on the internet, but critics said the measure could be used as a cudgel against the government’s critics.The legislation, called the Protection From Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Bill, would require websites to run corrections alongside “online falsehoods” and would “cut off profits” of sites that spread misinformation, among other measures, according to the Ministry of Law.The bill is widely expected to become law in the coming weeks because it has support from Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s People’s Action Party, which has a supermajority in Parliament.“This bill targets falsehoods, not free speech,” the Ministry of Law said in a statement outlining the legislation. “It will help ensure online falsehoods do not drown out authentic speech and ideas, and undermine democratic processes and society.”But human rights advocates said they feared that the bill, which would give government ministers wide-ranging powers to fight misinformation that damaged the public interest, would grant the authorities too much leeway to decide what was true or false.The bill defines the public interest broadly, saying that ministers could intervene to prevent “a diminution of public confidence” in the government’s performance or the “incitement of feelings of enmity, hatred or ill will between different groups of persons,” among other threats.Kirsten Han, a Singaporean journalist and activist, described the legislation as “worryingly broad.”“The bill gives ministers so much power and discretion — any minister can direct individuals or websites to post corrections or take down content, or order access to content to be blocked, and these orders have to be complied with first, even if one is going to appeal the direction in the courts,” Ms. Han said in an email.The Ministry of Law said the bill did not apply to “opinions, criticisms, satire or parody,” only to falsehoods that threatened the public interest. According to a draft of the bill, punishments for some violations could include fines of up to about $44,000 and a prison term of up to six years for individuals, or fines of up to about $738,000 in “any other case.”Critics say the bill could put a wide range of online publishers in legal jeopardy in Singapore, including foreign media organizations.The “public interest” definitions are so vague, they add, that the legislation could be weaponized to target the government’s critics. Similar laws have been used by authoritarian governments around Southeast Asia.“You’re basically giving the autocrats another weapon to restrict speech, and speech is pretty restricted in the region already,” said Phil Robertson, the deputy Asia director at Human Rights Watch.Singapore holds elections, but there has never been a change of power as a result, and the government has long exerted control over the domestic news media through defamation suits.The advocacy group Reporters Without Borders ranks Singapore 151st of 180 countries in its Press Freedom Index, three places behind Russia.The draft legislation is hardly the first of its kind. Governments including those of Russia and of South Korea have recently put so-called false news in their cross hairs. Restrictions on online communication are also under discussion in Australia and New Zealand, as both countries try to address popular outrage over the massacre last month of 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand.In statements on Monday, press officers for Google and Twitter said the companies were still reviewing the bill.“Misinformation is a significant challenge, and one that we are working hard to address,” said Chris Brummitt, a Google spokesman. “We will study the bill to determine our next steps, and urge the government to allow for a full and transparent public consultation on the proposed legislation.”Simon Milner, Facebook’s vice president for public policy in the Asia-Pacific region, said in a statement that the social network supported regulation that “strikes the right balance between reducing harm while protecting people’s rights to meaningful speech.”“We are, however, concerned with aspects of the law that grant broad powers to the Singapore executive branch to compel us to remove content they deem to be false and proactively push a government notification to users,” he added.Companies like Facebook, Google and Twitter were once lauded for leading free speech and public discourse into a new age. Now, they are more likely to be blamed for providing an outlet for misinformation.As skepticism has risen, the platforms have taken measures to combat bogus or harmful information, with varying degrees of success. They have stepped up efforts to police content and enlisted the help of outside organizations to fact-check news articles and videos. They have tried to empower trusted publishers, such as traditional news agencies, to improve the overall quality of the information that users are shown.But controversies have continued to erupt. And even for the internet companies, it may now be easier to ask lawmakers to lay down guidelines for content. That way, the companies can deflect the blame if the policies cause dissatisfaction.In an op-ed over the weekend in The Washington Post, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, made a case for regulating his platform, calling for “a more active role for governments and regulators.”“We need a more standardized approach,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. “Regulation could set baselines for what’s prohibited and require companies to build systems for keeping harmful content to a bare minimum.”On Monday, Jeff Paine, the managing director of the Asia Internet Coalition — whose members include Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google, Twitter and other technology firms — said the group supported Singapore’s efforts to protect harmony, social cohesion, and the integrity of the country’s institutions and political processes.But Mr. Paine said the group worried that the bill “gives the Singapore government full discretion over what is considered true or false.”“As the most far-reaching legislation of its kind to date, this level of overreach poses significant risks to freedom of expression and speech, and could have severe ramifications both in Singapore and around the world,” he said.Mr. Lee, the prime minister, previewed the false news bill in a speech last week at a gala dinner celebrating the 20th anniversary of the founding of Channel NewsAsia, a Singapore-based outlet.Mr. Lee told guests that the city-state was “particularly vulnerable” to false news because it was a multiracial, multiethnic society with “enduring fault lines that can be easily exploited.”Channel NewsAsia covered Mr. Lee’s remarks, but without mentioning that the government’s campaigns against misinformation have generated criticism from free speech advocates.Mike Ives reported from Hong Kong, and Raymond Zhong from Shanghai.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported by“Good lord, imagine getting owned this hard in the NYT comments section by your OWN SPOUSE.” By Michelle L. DozoisNew York Times readers leave thousands of comments on our site each day. Usually these comments don’t go viral. But on rare occasions, they get shared widely, charming a wider portion of the internet beyond the digital walls of The Times. On Thursday, two of our readers, Kathy Watson and her husband, Stu, of Hood River, Ore., joined that unofficial hall of fame. Stu, a retired newspaper editor and writer, left a comment on Mike Isaac’s story about how Mark Zuckerberg plans to change Facebook and other social platforms so that people have more private conversations with smaller groups: Kathy, also a former journalist and a semiretired chef, had a different perspective:A Times comment moderator spotted the exchange and highlighted both responses as “Times Picks,” making them more visible to other readers of the comments.Then one of our technology columnists, Kevin Roose, tweeted the exchange, adding his own commentary: “Good lord, imagine getting owned this hard in the NYT comments section by your OWN SPOUSE.” More than 10,000 people on Twitter liked or retweeted his tweet, and many others weighed in — either siding with Kathy or Stu, admitting that they could relate, or hypothesizing about the state of the couple’s marriage. “Oh my god these are friends of mine, and this is so on brand!” replied Melissa Tokstad. We spoke to Stu and Kathy by phone (at the same time) on Friday, to find out how they felt about their sudden Twitter fame and if they were even aware of it. They didn’t know they had been “causing a sensation” until we showed them the tweets, but they each good-naturedly described the situation as “funny.” (And they confirmed that Ms. Tokstad is indeed a friend.)Had Stu been aware of Kathy’s reply to his comment? Yes. “She loves to tell me about all the things she does to smack me down.” Is this the first time Kathy has replied to one of Stu’s comments? Yes. (Their shared New York Times account is under her email address, so she received a notification when his comment was posted.) “I saw his comment and thought, well that’s something,” she said and laughed (she used a different word than “something”). Does Kathy ever feel like Stu owes her a debt for keeping him up-to-date on Facebook happenings, as some implied on Twitter? No. They agreed that the flow of information goes both ways. “The truth is I’m an introvert, and he’s an extrovert,” Kathy said. “There’s a lot of give and take of information, and what’s important to us is staying connected.” Want more hall-of-fame comments? Check out the stories behind these favorites:“I’m icing my knee and I’m hard boiling some eggs”“She moved to the US and stole my husband!”“Generously buttered noodles, sprinkled with just a quarter cup of parsley for color and freshness”A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Britain proposed new online safety laws on Monday that would slap penalties on social media companies and technology firms if they fail to protect users from harmful content.Easy access to damaging material, particularly among young people, has caused growing concern worldwide and came into the spotlight in Britain after the death of 14-year-old schoolgirl Molly Russell, which her parents said came after she had viewed online material on depression and suicide.Internet companies could face big fines, with bosses also held personally accountable, under rules to be policed by an independent regulator. In the most serious cases companies could also be banned from operating in Britain if they do not everything reasonably practical to eradicate harmful content.""We are putting a legal duty of care on these companies to keep users safe; and if they fail to do so, tough punishments will be imposed,"" Prime Minister Theresa May said in a video posted online. ""The era of social media firms regulating themselves is over.""Media Secretary Jeremy Wright said the proposed legislation - the toughest in the world - would apply to any company that allowed users to share or discover content or interact online, such as social media sites, discussion forums, messaging services and search engines.GLOBAL WORRIESGovernments globally are wrestling over how to better control content on social media platforms, often blamed for encouraging abuse, the spread of online pornography and for influencing or manipulating voters.Global worries were stoked by the live streaming in March of the mass shooting at a mosque in New Zealand on one of Facebook's platforms, after which Australia said it would fine social media and web-hosting companies and imprison executives if violent content is not removed ""expeditiously"". TechUK, an industry trade group, said the paper was a significant step forward, but one that needs to be firmed up during its 12-week consultation. It said that some aspects of the government's approach were too vague.""It is vital that the new framework is effective, proportionate and predictable,"" techUK said in a statement, adding that not all concerns could be addressed through regulation.Facebook said it was looking forward to working with the government to ensure new regulations were effective, repeating founder Mark Zuckerberg's line that regulations were needed to have a standard approach across platforms.COMPLEX ISSUES Rebecca Stimson, Facebook's head of UK public policy, said any new rules should strike a balance between protecting society and supporting innovation and free speech.""These are complex issues to get right and we look forward to working with the government and parliament to ensure new regulations are effective,"" Stimson said in a statement. Prime Minister May said that while the internet could be brilliant at connecting people, it had not done enough to protect users, especially children and young people.""We have listened to campaigners and parents, and are putting a legal duty of care on internet companies to keep people safe,"" she said in a statement. The duty of care would make companies take more responsibility for the safety of users and tackle harm caused by content or activity on their services. The regulator, funded by industry in the medium term, will set clear safety standards.A committee of lawmakers has also demanded that more is done to make political advertising and campaigning on social media more transparent.""It is vital that our electoral law is brought up to date as soon as possible, so that social media users know who is contacting them with political messages and why,"" said Damian Collins, a Conservative MP who chairs the parliamentary committee for digital, culture, media and sport.""Should there be an early election, then emergency legislation should be introduced to achieve this."" (Reporting by Elizabeth Piper and Paul Sandle; Editing by David Holmes and David Goodman)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie RobertsonHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — Mark Zuckerberg’s “move fast and break things” mantra may no longer be Facebook’s modus operandi, but Silicon Valley’s demand for rapid growth is still strong. And the rise of the competitive landscape of artificial intelligence is only fueling it.Last year, venture capital investment in A.I. start-ups increased 72 percent from the previous year to a record $9.3 billion in the United States, according to a PricewaterhouseCoopers report.Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn and a partner at Greylock Partners, said at The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California that he looked very carefully at A.I. ventures to see how they were making new, interesting things possible and how he could bet on them early. He said current machine learning techniques, which are transforming fundamental industries, gave an amazing glimpse of the future.“My ideal investing is stuff that looks a little crazy now and in three years is obvious or five years is obvious,” Mr. Hoffman said.He voiced some concerns around how A.I. could transform the global landscape, likening it to the shift from the agricultural age to the industrial age.“You’ll see enormous changes from where the bulk of people find jobs and employment,” he said. “The first worry is what does that transition look like. That intervening transition is super painful.”And how ethically the technology will be developed will tie into who wins the race to build it. Some groups will care about human impact, others will not, he said.Mr. Hoffman recently released the book “Blitzscaling: The Lightning-Fast Path to Building Massively Valuable Companies,” which details his theory that the rapid growth of a company — above almost all else — is what leads to its success.And this attitude, he said, is why Silicon Valley continues to produce impressive tech companies.“Everywhere in the world recognizes that technology is super important, there’s super great talent everywhere,” Mr. Hoffman said.“It’s this understanding of the network of learning and this playbook of the first to scale is what wins the competitive race.”A recent report from KPMG noted there was a record $254 billion of venture capital invested around the world in 2018, up from about $174 billion the previous year.Jeffrey F. Rayport, a senior lecturer at Harvard Business School who teaches an M.B.A. course on scaling tech ventures, said founders were often at the mercy of intense demands and the “financing treadmill” from venture capitalists — a funding model that some Silicon Valley founders are starting to reject.“The world has become very sophisticated about how to scale technology ventures, and with that sophistication has come, in a sense, a very professional and very aggressive set of investors,” Mr. Rayport said.“The flip side of that is that once you put a venture on a path of successive financing rounds that are betting on exponential growth, then the pressure is enormous to deliver, whether or not it makes sense for the venture.”Young founders who “can’t scale into the opportunity they created” are a common occurrence. “They’ve got to figure out how to do 20 years of learning and development as leaders, as managers, as people, in a space of maybe two years,” Mr. Rayport said.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)That was fast: On their second day of trading yesterday, shares in Lyft fell 12 percent, to $69.01, below their I.P.O. price. That darkens the outlook for the ride-hailing company, and for other tech unicorns planning to go public.Lyft crashed below its I.P.O. price quickly. Other tech companies with big losses, like Groupon, Twitter and Snap, have suffered the same fate, but it took a while — almost two weeks, for Groupon.Investors may be worried about Lyft’s losses. The company lost nearly $1 billion last year. And it can’t say when it will turn a profit, as it plans to invest heavily in technology like autonomous vehicles.Other I.P.O. candidates have reason to worry, too. Lyft’s troubles suggest that no one — not underwriters nor investors — knows how to value a company with such sharp growth and steep losses. “The ones following in the wake of Lyft will be priced more reasonably,” Kathleen Smith of Renaissance Capital said.Lyft should expect more pain. Short-sellers, who profit when a company’s stock price goes down, are expected to bet against it within days.Facebook still hasn’t solved its many problems with hosting false or misleading information, but Mark Zuckerberg says that it may start a dedicated news service.• In India, Facebook is struggling to cope with disinformation and hate speech circulating ahead of elections. When local news outlets have raced to post “exclusive” information about hostilities between India and Pakistan, for instance, much of it has been false.• Singapore has stopped waiting for Facebook to clamp down on false information and introduced draft legislation that would, among other things, require websites to run corrections alongside “online falsehoods” and would “cut off profits” of sites that spread it.Against that backdrop, Mr. Zuckerberg is pitching the idea of a dedicated news service on Facebook. In an interview with Mathias Döpfner, the C.E.O. of the German publisher Axel Springer, he explained how a dedicated tab on the social network could feature content from third-party publishers — which Facebook might pay for.“It’s important to me that we help people get trustworthy news and find solutions that help journalists around the world do their important work,” Mr. Zuckerberg said.The plane maker has pushed back the timeline for updating the anti-stall software under suspicion in two recent fatal crashes, David Gelles of the NYT reports.Boeing was hoping to submit a fix to the Federal Aviation Administration this week.  But employees who reviewed the update appear to have raised concerns about it, Mr. Gelles reports. It isn’t clear what their issues were.“Time is needed for additional work by Boeing as the result of an ongoing review of the 737 Max Flight Control System to ensure that Boeing has identified and appropriately addressed all pertinent issues,” the F.A.A. said in a statement yesterday.Meanwhile, Boeing’s problems are growing. “Some airlines are demanding that Boeing compensate them for lost revenues as they cancel flights and their planes sit idle. At least one airline is seeking to cancel its deal to buy more Max jets,” Mr. Gelles writes.And lawyers are preparing for battle. Families in the Ethiopian Airlines crash are likely to sue Boeing and the carrier.More: After the crash of a Lion Air flight last year, Boeing reportedly suggested foreign pilots were at fault. And Singapore Airlines grounded two Boeing 787-10s after inspections revealed premature engine deterioration.A year ago several big names in the world of finance were making grand plans to enter the cryptocurrency markets. Most of those efforts are now faltering, Nathaniel Popper of the NYT reports.• “Goldman Sachs said it was opening a Bitcoin trading operation to serve clients. A year later, customer interest has been weak, and the bank has not received regulatory approval to buy and hold actual Bitcoins for customers.”• “The parent company of the New York Stock Exchange has been forced to delay the opening of the cryptocurrency exchange it announced last year, and there is still no clear sign of when it will get the approval needed from regulators.”• “The Chicago Board Options Exchange said last month that it was going to stop offering a Bitcoin trading contract that it started with great fanfare in late 2017.”“The smart money knows that crypto is not ready,” Ciaran Murray, a cryptocurrency trader in London, told Mr. Popper.Enthusiasts had hoped Wall Street would legitimize cryptocurrencies and encourage more traditional investors to buy them. But the second-guessing at big financial institutions shows how hard it is to take a technology “from the fringes of the internet into the mainstream financial world,” Mr. Popper writes.Britain’s Parliament reached no majority yesterday on proposals for the country’s exit from the E.U., worsening the disarray over Brexit less than two weeks before the deadline to depart, Stephen Castle of the NYT reports.“The plan that lost most narrowly was for a customs union that would keep Britain in the same tariff system as the rest of the European Union countries, tying the country closely to the bloc. It failed 276-273.”“The failure to agree on any of them means Britain is facing the deadline with nothing resolved and all the options remaining on the table,” Mr. Castle writes. “It also underscores the stalemate in Parliament where different factions appear unable to compromise enough to swing behind any one vision for Brexit.”“Something will have to give soon, however. By April 10, Mrs. May needs to get a Brexit agreement through Parliament or ask the leaders of the European Union for a longer delay if she wants to avoid leaving without a deal,” Mr. Castle adds. A last-resort option: a general election.Mrs. May’s cabinet will hold a five-hour meeting today, which the FT says “is likely to be a brutal and potentially decisive meeting to discuss what route, if any, can be charted.” Parliament is expected to debate Brexit again tomorrow, and may attempt to wrest control from Mrs. May once more.More: Brexit hasn’t officially happened, but it has already cooled investment and damaged the nation’s reputation as a haven for commerce. And banks haven’t moved many people in the run-up to the departure from the E.U. — yet. As the M.&A. boom declines, top investment bankers are scrounging around for much smaller transactions than they once handled, Liz Hoffman of the WSJ reports.• “ ‘Every 10 years or so, the big banks get the idea to move in,’ said Mark Brady, head of mergers and acquisitions at William Blair & Co., a Chicago-based firm where the average deal is $400 million. ‘As soon as there’s a down-cycle, they disappear.’ ”• JPMorgan Chase bankers, who helped arrange the $74 billion sale of Celgene, sought business from Cianna, a medical company with $40 million in revenue. “I kept saying, tell me again why you’re interested in this deal?” Cianna’s then-C.E.O. told the WSJ.• And “a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner cold-called his way onto a $162 million stock-offering deal for a Texas-based chemicals company.”• There’s an advantage to smaller deals, Ms. Hoffman writes: “While fees in the middle market are smaller, they are typically split between fewer banks. Deals also close faster and require fewer staff than complex, trans-Atlantic takeovers.”Trump administration officials worry that the world’s wireless networks will be dominated by Huawei, the Chinese telecom company they have tried to block as a security threat, Ellen Nakashima and Souad Mekhennet of the WaPo report.• “Officials have begun discussing ways to use encryption, segmented network components and stronger standards to protect key systems.”• “Officials have not let up on their campaign to urge other countries to block Huawei — a firm with close ties to the Chinese government — from their burgeoning 5G networks, which will power everything from self-driving cars to military operations.”• “But they are cognizant that many countries already use low-cost Huawei equipment and will probably continue to rely on it as they transition to the next generation of mobile telecommunications.”• “ ‘You have to presume a dirty network,’ Sue Gordon, a senior U.S. intelligence official, said recently. ‘That’s what we’re going to have to presume about the world.’ ”Michael Cerda, the head of product for Goldman Sachs’s consumer division, Marcus, has reportedly quit.Deals• Paul Jacobs, the former chairman of Qualcomm, has finally given up his quest to buy his old employer. (WSJ)• Kellogg agreed to sell its Keebler and Famous Amos cookie brands to Ferrero for $1.3 billion. (CNBC)• Andreessen Horowitz is celebrating after having backed Lyft, PagerDuty and other unicorns now set to go public in big I.P.O.s. (FT)• Tencent plans to sell $5 billion in bonds to raise money and fight new rivals. (FT)• Toast, which makes restaurant management software, has raised $250 million at a $2.7 billion valuation from investors like TCV and Tiger Global Management. (TechCrunch)Politics and policy• President Trump tweeted that Republicans wouldn’t try to replace the Affordable Care Act until after 2020. (Axios)• The Trump administration is moving to limit claims of employment-law violations by franchisees and contractors. (NYT)• A federal judge sealed the divorce records of Stephen Moore, President Trump’s pick for the Fed, after the Guardian posted them online. (NYT, Guardian)• A White House whistle-blower has told lawmakers that the Trump administration gave at least 25 individuals security clearances despite objections from staffers. (NYT)• Senator Kamala Harris’s campaign said it raised $12 million in the first quarter, vaulting her into the upper tier of 2020 Democratic candidates. (NYT)Trade• The E.U. is dragging its heels over trade discussions with the U.S., which could anger President Trump. (Bloomberg)Tech• Who’s fighting whom in video streaming? This Venn diagram explains. (WSJ)• The Chinese tech giant Tencent has been quietly testing a game-streaming platform. (CNBC)• Researchers say small stickers on the road could trick Tesla’s Autopilot software into steering into oncoming traffic. (Ars Technica)• A group of former American government hackers reportedly helped the U.A.E. spy on prominent media figures. (Reuters)• Google’s new A.I. ethics council hasn’t impressed employees. (MIT Technology Review)Best of the rest• While investigating Carlos Ghosn, the Renault-Nissan alliance reportedly discovered that it had three more jets than it previously knew. (FT)• Mr. Ghosn’s lawyers asked that his trial be held separately from that of a former colleague, Greg Kelly. (Reuters)• Dubai’s rulers are worried that the emirate’s building boom is ending. (FT)• A peek into Saudi Aramco’s books showed it to be vastly profitable, but investors now wonder: What are its sustainability plans? (FT)• A British government report suggests breaking up the country’s four big accounting firms. (FT)• Manufacturing activity in the U.S. and China has picked up, easing fears about a coming global recession. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThankfully, monopoly power is shaping up as a central issue in the 2020 campaign.By Tim WuMr. Wu is a law professor who specializes in antitrust.Senator Elizabeth Warren’s announcement on Friday of a plan to break up major tech monopolies like Facebook and Google was critically important — not just as a policy proposal, but also as a sign of the return of antitrust to politics.In the United States, economic policy is ostensibly a matter of democratic governance, but for too long antitrust has been viewed as a technocratic matter best left to experts. This is a mistake: Excessive corporate size and power can be linked to many voter concerns, including stagnant wages, the invasion of privacy, the rise of fake news, the demise of the middle class and an unresponsive democracy.Antitrust is especially salient today because we witness the tremendous power of the tech monopolies firsthand, in our daily lives. Nearly everyone uses Facebook, Google, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft, and nearly everyone can see how smaller businesses have been hurt by their dominance. Nearly everyone has an opinion about whether they are too powerful, whether they know too much, whether they ought to be admired or feared.Add to these concerns the dangers of agricultural monopolies, rising costs for cable and broadband, and anticompetitive drug pricing, and it is clear that for Ms. Warren and other presidential hopefuls in the Democratic field, the problem of monopoly power should be a central issue — perhaps the central issue — in the 2020 campaign.Though every Democratic candidate is against President Trump and in favor of working Americans, antitrust is an issue over which the candidates have real disagreement. There are stark differences between, say, Senator Bernie Sanders’s calls to “break them up” (usually a reference to banks), and former Vice President Joe Biden’s “cooperative” approach. Mr. Biden (still undeclared), has taken the position that big corporations should not be “singled out” and that their chief executives can be persuaded to shoulder their responsibilities toward workers and communities. (In the late 1970s, Mr. Biden resisted efforts to strengthen the antitrust laws, though his views may have changed as the law has grown weaker.)Antitrust law is not an instrument of socialism or of unfettered capitalism; it seeks to protect markets from abuse by their participants. Ms. Warren and Senator Amy Klobuchar seem to have the deepest understanding of this. Ms. Klobuchar is not as aggressive on the issue as Ms. Warren, but she has cast herself as an antitrust reformer, introducing thoughtful new laws for merger reform. Senator Cory Booker, for his part, has over the last year staked out a trustbusting position centered on labor markets, with particular emphasis on the worrisome effects of corporate consolidation on workers and their salaries.The largest question mark among the major candidates is Senator Kamala Harris of California, who represents the state where the largest tech monopolies are headquartered. She was tough in her questioning of Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, during congressional hearings last year, but she has been silent on the questions raised by tech monopolies.Ms. Harris attracted some attention last month when she declined to register opposition to the proposed merger of the wireless carriers Sprint and T-Mobile — in stark contrast to the rest of the senators running for president. It may be that she is relatively open to approving mergers; it is also possible that her positions are just undeveloped.The variety of antitrust positions in the emerging Democratic field means that it will no longer be enough for a candidate to mutter a few platitudes about big corporations and let the party’s technocrats decide what the nation’s approach to monopoly power ought to be. Such questions of economic policy affect us all and therefore should sit at the core of a majoritarian democratic process.Indeed, they once did: Today’s interest in excessive corporate power recalls a time — 1912, to be exact — when antitrust policy was the central economic issue in the presidential race. Then, as now, the nation faced consolidated industries, widespread inequality and political radicalization. And then, as now, the public deserved the opportunity to decide what to do about that.Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, a contributing opinion writer and the author, most recently, of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Pam BelluckStanford University has cleared Stephen Quake, a bioengineering professor, of any wrongdoing in his interactions with a Chinese researcher who roiled the scientific world by creating the first gene-edited babies.“In evaluating evidence and witness statements, we found that Quake observed proper scientific protocol,” said a letter from the university to Dr. Quake, obtained by The New York Times on Tuesday.Referring to the Chinese scientist, He Jiankui, by his nickname, JK, the letter said that Stanford’s investigators concluded that Dr. Quake did not “directly participate in any way in JK’s research, including in the conception or performance of the work.”In fact, the letter said, Dr. Quake discouraged Dr. He from pursuing the project and urged him to follow proper scientific practices after he insisted on going ahead.Dr. Quake was one of three professors whose interactions with Dr. He were being reviewed by Stanford, and his association with Dr. He was the most extensive. The other two — Dr. Matthew Porteus, a genetics researcher, and Dr. William Hurlbut, an ethicist — had previously said they strongly discouraged Dr. He when he told them of his idea to create genetically engineered babies.In a statement Tuesday, Stanford, which has never publicly named the professors under review, said that it had exonerated all of them.“Based on all of the available information, the reviewers found that the Stanford researchers were not participants in Dr. He’s research regarding genome editing of human embryos for intended implantation and birth, and that they had no research, financial or organizational ties to this research,” the statement said. “The review found that the Stanford researchers expressed serious concerns to Dr. He about his work.”Since Dr. He announced the birth of the gene-edited twins in November, the research community has been debating what actions scientists should take if they know about ethically questionable experiments. Global institutions, including the World Health Organization, are working to establish an international reporting and monitoring system.Dr. Quake’s interactions with Dr. He were detailed in a recent New York Times article, which included excerpts from emails that Dr. Quake showed to a Times reporter.The emails show that Dr. He, 35, who had been a postdoctoral student in Dr. Quake’s lab in 2011, kept Dr. Quake apprised of major steps, including the implantation of the edited embryos in the woman’s womb and the birth of the twins months later. They show that Dr. Quake suggested that Dr. He obtain ethical approval from Chinese institutions and submit the project’s data for vetting by peer-reviewed journals.The emails contain encouraging expressions like “Wow, that’s quite an achievement!” But the correspondence makes it clear that Dr. Quake did not participate in the work itself.On Tuesday, Dr. Quake, who turned 50 this week, said: “I’m pleased this inquiry is over and its conclusion is consistent with what I knew to be true: that I had urged Dr. He not to pursue this path and when it became clear he wouldn’t listen to me, to adhere to high scientific and ethical standards in his research.”Dr. Quake, an entrepreneur whose inventions include blood tests to detect Down syndrome in pregnancy and to avoid organ transplant rejection, is also co-president of an institute funded by the Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan.The investigation of Dr. Quake began after the president of Dr. He’s Chinese university wrote letters alleging that Dr. Quake had helped with the project.The letters, obtained by The Times, claimed that “Prof. Stephen Quake provided instructions to the preparation and implementation of the experiment, the publication of papers, the promotion and news release, and the strategies to react after the news release.”The Chinese government, in a preliminary report in January, concluded that Dr. He forged ethical review documents and engaged in actions that “seriously violated ethics, scientific research integrity and relevant state regulations.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — One of the European officials in charge of a tough data privacy law says legislation now poised to emerge in the U.S. won't be a copy of the EU's regime and will reflect American cultural values.Vera Jourova, the European Union's consumer commissioner, also said Friday she assured U.S. tech industry executives during a visit to Washington that the EU's sweeping ""privacy shield"" law will be ""future-proof"" and won't hinder innovations such as the development of artificial intelligence.Jourova met with Trump administration officials and U.S. lawmakers, making the case that now that Europe has acted, the U.S. must move to protect the privacy of consumers' data.""I would like to see the law in the United States as soon as possible,"" she told reporters.She is modestly optimistic that legislation will be enacted by Congress and signed into law, Jourova said.Her visit came as momentum is building in Washington for a national privacy law that could sharply rein in the ability of the largest tech companies to collect and make money from people's personal data. A federal law, the first of its kind in the U.S., could allow people to see or prohibit the use of their data. Companies would need permission to release such information.At the same time, technology is galloping ahead. At a White House event Friday, President Donald Trump said the race to build 5G high-speed wireless networks is one the U.S. must win. The Federal Communications Commission said it will hold a massive auction to bolster 5G service, the next generation of mobile networks, with the government planning to spend $20 billion to expand broadband access in rural areas. The U.S. is jockeying for position with China over 5G.Behind the drive for a national privacy law is rising concern over the compromise of private data held by Facebook, Google and other tech giants that have reaped riches by aggregating consumer information.Jourova had discussions with key senators working on privacy legislation, tech industry executives and the head of the Federal Trade Commission, Joseph Simons.""We are fully at the disposal of the American legislators to give this feedback and experience"" with the 10-month-old EU privacy law, she said Friday. ""I fully recognize that the federal law, if there will be one, will not be copy-and-paste. This is another culture, another society; the citizens may want to see different solutions. It's fully in the hands of the American legislators.""Jourova said questions came from senators and industry officials regarding the impact of the EU law on small and startup businesses, on citizens' ability to exercise their new privacy rights and on whether it will hinder innovation.""Our answer to this is (the EU law) tries to be future-proof and cover the new situations in the world of technologies which consume citizens' data,"" she said. ""We have the principle that the data can be used for research and business and artificial intelligence"" after they are made anonymous.Earlier this week, after discussions with European officials, Facebook changed the fine print in its terms of service to clearly explain to users that it makes money by using their data. The social media giant modified its terms and conditions to better inform users what they are signing up for, clearly explaining how it uses the data it collects on users to develop profiling activities and target advertising to score profits.The EU regulators stepped up scrutiny of Facebook's terms after the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal, in which data on 87 million Facebook users was allegedly improperly harvested. The regulators also want tech companies to bring their terms in line with European consumer law.Asked for her assessment of Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg's recent call for tighter regulations to protect consumer data, Jourova said Friday that ""whatever strong declarations, whatever commitments and declarations, ... we need to see real action.""""This can only be done by checking whether they are investigating the complaints of the people, following the cases, and this is the job of the data-protection authorities in the EU,"" she said.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)A formerly homeless veteran ekes out just enough to live by picking through the trash of billionaires like Mark Zuckerberg on the streets of San Francisco and selling the designer jeans and high-end housewares he finds.U.S.C. students jet to Bali for spring break, while some of their classmates work overnight shifts to pay for books.Recently, my colleagues Thomas Fuller and Jennifer Medina wrote articles about the symptoms of California’s vast and growing economic inequality.That’s a major, vexing topic in the state, though hardly unexplored.Still, they seemed to strike a particular chord with readers — hundreds of whom emailed, tweeted and commented on each.Many applauded Jake Orta, the Air Force veteran and Texas native whom Thomas followed around the rain-slicked streets of the Mission this winter.“Hats off to Mr. Orta,” one commenter, hotGumption, wrote. “He’s entrepreneurial, a survivor and — as I see it — a distant cousin to the trend called ‘shabby chic’ where canny designers take what used to be yard sale junk and make millions by renaming it.”Others were outraged by his story, not because they saw his actions as wrong, but because of what his lifestyle signified.“The profile speaks to the utter absence of care America provides its veterans,” Mike Frank wrote. “Wake up call to Mr. Zuckerberg: look out your front window, use your vast wealth and make Facebook a morally conscious leader with a commitment to the veterans who have served us and will continue to do so.”And some thought the story focused too much on the extremes.“Characterizing our country as a Dickensian Tale of Two Cities is a lot more fun than realizing it’s instead a Tale of Three Cities, with the overwhelming majority doing just fine,” wrote another commenter, bigoil.[Read the full story here.]More readers shared their experiences of being somewhere in the middle of the income spectrum at elite universities — and how the exposure to different ways of life was itself an education.“At Stanford, my freshman roommate got $100 for each A she earned. I had to earn spending money by serving food in the dining halls,” wrote Alice, whose son is now a freshman at U.S.C. “I realized being rich did not necessarily mean one was a snob. She realized she had grown up in a bubble. I encourage my son to embrace both the haves and the have-nots at S.C.”Others said that the piece depicted experiences similar to their own.“I got a great education at U.S.C. and was not resentful, but the idea of any sort of ‘even playing field’ at the school is simply untrue, and the gap in money and social stature was nearly impossible to close,” wrote Christine, who said she was the first person in her working-class family to attend college.Still others said inequality is what you make of it.“Wealthy people and celebrities send their kids here, they always have, but this narrative only works to devalue the education that many middle and lower middle class students care deeply about,” wrote Virginia, who said she’s a current U.S.C. undergrad. “I don’t care about the Corvette, as long as it doesn’t hit me when I’m jaywalking to class.”[Read the full story here.](We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Destined to Burn: Which communities could be the next Paradise? An analysis found that more than 350,000 Californians live in communities built almost entirely in “very high fire severity zones.” [The Sacramento Bee]• “It is lawyer 101: You do not steal your client’s money.” In a drastic escalation of the criminal case against Michael Avenatti, federal prosecutors in California announced that he had been indicted on three dozen charges. If convicted, he could face up to 333 years in prison. [The New York Times]• Tax Day is Monday and it’s the first time Californians are filing under the Trump administration’s new tax law. Some are feeling a new squeeze: “The federal government really jacked us.” [CALmatters]• And if you still haven’t filed your taxes, here’s some last-minute advice. [The New York Times]• Sacramento teachers talk about why they walked out on Thursday. “It’s one broken promise after another.” [The Sacramento Bee]• Uber’s initial public offering could value the ride-hailing giant at $100 billion. But in a filing, the company revealed it’s losing $1.8 billion a year. [The New York Times]• A fight over where to build a homeless Navigation Center in San Francisco is giving way to a proposal to build one in every district — thus eliminating supervisors’ excuses about why they shouldn’t be built in their districts. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• “The Marathon continues.” Thousands gathered at Staples Center and on the streets of L.A. to remember and celebrate the life of Nipsey Hussle. [The New York Times]• And a Times journalist who went to the same high school as the rapper reflects: “Nipsey unapologetically believed in Los Angeles and represented it at a time when so many of the people and landmarks that we grew up with have changed or have closed down.” [The New York Times]• In Willows, hobbyists hack cars — and make them self-race. [The New York Times]• Almost a half a century ago, Bruce Lee pitched a TV show about life in San Francisco’s Chinatown in the late 1800s. He was told no; the show wasn’t viable with an Asian lead. Now, his daughter, Shannon Lee, and Justin Lin are bringing the vision to life with “Warrior.” [Newsweek]Tejal Rao is back in the West after winning a Vilcek Prize for Creative Promise. She shared her moving acceptance speech notes on Twitter, and now she’s sent us this recommendation, for a feast fit for a celebration:This week, my team at the food desk collaborated, rounding up our favorite cookbooks of the season. I wrote about “My Mexico City Kitchen, Recipes and Convictions,” by the chef Gabriela Cámara, known for her Mexico City restaurant Contramar and Cala in San Francisco.Why? Because on a recent Sunday I invited friends over and cooked a whole feast from the book. An equal parts dramatic and delicious butterflied grilled snapper. The fish was half red and half green: One side stained with a fiery paste of cascabel, ancho and guajillo chiles, the other side mellow with parsley and garlic.But first there were tostadas piled with creme fraiche and Cámara‘s green chorizo, and a big salad coated with her pepita dressing. For dessert, I made her kumquat chocoflan, and the book’s spot on my stack of favorites was sealed.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" The Snap chief said that he was “impressed” by Europe’s moves, and that there was still time to “course-correct” in the United States.At The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California, Evan Spiegel, Snapchat’s founder, said he was impressed with the privacy regulations enacted in Europe.CreditCreditMike Cohen for The New York TimesSupported byBy Katie RobertsonHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — With the continued pressure to regulate Silicon Valley, many wonder when, and how, the United States will act.Sam Altman, president of the start-up incubator Y Combinator, said the onus was on the government.“The idea that these companies who are not accountable to us or elected by us should get to decide sort of the new safeguards of society, that seems like the wrong way to do it,” Mr. Altman said last week at The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California. “I think we should let our — flawed as they may be — democratically elected and enforced institutions update the rules for the world.”He suggested restrictions around how user-generated content was amplified or distributed, as well as the classifications of hate speech or fake news.The United States has lagged behind its peers and has provided little regulation of the industry that is one of its biggest economic drivers.In January, leaders at the World Economic Forum in Davos pushed for more global oversight to limit the power of big tech. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan announced plans to use his country’s leadership of the Group of 20 nations this year to emphasize data governance.America’s own tech chiefs, including the Apple chief executive Tim Cook and executives from Facebook, Google and Microsoft, have lobbied for a comprehensive federal privacy law. Europe has enacted the world’s toughest rules on digital privacy with a sweeping law known as the General Data Protection Regulation.In a recent capitulation to the growing calls for a watchdog, the Federal Trade Commission announced Tuesday that it would create a task force to scrutinize tech giants. The F.T.C. is also said to be considering a multibillion-dollar fine for Facebook over privacy violations.Facebook’s very public reckoning recently has hastened the push for more regulation. The company is accused of, among other things, compromising privacy, harvesting user data, and allowing misinformation, propaganda and hate speech to spread, including during the 2016 presidential election. Also, the Times reported that its leaders covered up problems and targeted critics, enlisting an opposition-research firm to discredit naysayers.Mr. Altman defended Facebook’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, and its chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, saying the company was rapidly improving its practices. “Mark and Sheryl are extremely thoughtful people that have built one of the most important companies in human history. And I think they are listening,” Mr. Altman said.While Facebook and Twitter have taken plenty of hits for their approach to user data and social media, Snapchat, the disappearing-message app made by Snap Inc., has largely escaped the cascading criticism.Evan Spiegel, its founder, said Snapchat’s approach was different from that of its contemporaries, who are trying to police content.“We believe that just a small percentage of the content out there is really great content,” he said. “And so by focusing on that small amount of content and just not allowing really, you know, that longer tail of content creators to distribute content widely on our platform, we ultimately end up with a better content experience for our customers.”Mr. Spiegel linked the current climate for technology companies to the thinking in the Clinton administration around innovation at the beginning of the internet — an attitude of “we want people to mess around with it and to create wild new things, and because of that we don’t really think regulation is the right way to go.”“I think our society is now starting to understand how the internet works in a way that maybe they didn’t 20 years ago,” he said.But, Mr. Spiegel acknowledged, there was plenty of room to “course-correct.” He said he was “really impressed” with Europe’s moves, which he believed would inspire the next wave of privacy regulation.“I’ve found the European Commission to be very well-reasoned and thoughtful in their approach, and really putting consumers first,” Mr. Spiegel said. “The more that companies can align with the government to do what’s right for customers, I think everyone will win there.”He said the concern that regulating big tech would slow growth should be balanced with a consideration of America’s values.“The important thing in all of these debates is to, I think, offer at least the other side of economic progress, which may be the preservation of values that we care a lot about,” he said. “The real world and the internet are one and the same. They have a dramatic impact on one another. And that means that I think we need to be a little more thoughtful and deliberate about the products we’re creating and releasing widely.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford and Inyoung Kang(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a historic trade deficit for the U.S., a shift for Facebook and a look at the last Blockbuster video store.The U.S. imported a record amount of products last year, widening its trade deficit in goods to its highest level in history, the Commerce Department said on Wednesday. The trade deficit is the difference between how much a country sells to trading partners and how much it buys. President Trump has focused on narrowing that gap, which he considers a measure of whether other countries are taking advantage of the U.S. Few economists share that view.The details: The increase was driven by a global economic slowdown and the relative strength of the dollar. It was exacerbated by Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut, which left Americans more money to buy imported goods.After a wave of scandals, the world’s largest social network will prioritize private, encrypted communication in small groups, a sharp turn from the sort of public sharing it was built on.“I believe a privacy-focused communications platform will become even more important than today’s open platforms,” Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said in a blog post.What’s next: Mr. Zuckerberg was vague on many details of the shift, including how long it would take, but he said it would partly be achieved by integrating Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger, which historically have been operated autonomously.After an internal backlash, the party’s leaders in the House have postponed a vote on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism, which was widely seen as a response to an anti-Israel remark from Representative Ilhan Omar.The controversy has largely overshadowed Democrats’ legislative efforts in the past month, although the House is planning to vote this week on the For the People Act, a collection of anticorruption proposals. Here’s a look at what’s in the bill. Yesterday: The Democratic National Committee barred Fox News from hosting or televising debates for the party’s 2020 primary, citing the network’s “inappropriate relationship” with President Trump.Related: The pieces for Joe Biden’s presidential campaign are falling into place, and could make him a clear front-runner for the 2020 Democratic nomination. The only thing missing? Mr. Biden’s decision to run. As fertility rates across the U.S. decline, some of the largest drops have been among Hispanics. The birthrate for Hispanic women fell 31 percent from 2007 to 2017.The decline has been driven in part, demographers say, by generational differences. Hispanic women born in the U.S. are less likely to be poor and more likely to be educated than their immigrant mothers or grandmothers, according to the Pew Research Center. Many are delaying childbearing to finish school and start careers, just like other American-born women.Voices: “One thing my parents instilled in me was to get an education, don’t get married and have kids right away,” said Mayra Ramirez, 29, of Franklinton, N.C.Fifteen years ago, there were 9,000 Blockbuster video rental stores. After today, there will be just one.One of our business reporters examines how that store, in Bend, Ore., has survived the changes that have reshaped how people watch movies at home. Huawei sues U.S.: The Chinese electronics giant sued the federal government on Wednesday, arguing that it had been unfairly and incorrectly banned as a security threat.More Michael Cohen documents: President Trump’s former lawyer has provided new information to Congress in an effort to back up his claims that Mr. Trump’s lawyers helped alter a false statement Mr. Cohen gave to lawmakers in 2017.Lawmaker’s rape allegation: Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, has testified in Congress that she was raped by a superior officer. Clash over border security: During a hearing in the House, Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, faced criticism of the Trump administration’s treatment of migrant families at the border and its claims of a national emergency.Financial deregulation: Federal regulators have moved to ease oversight of large banks and other financial firms, continuing a push by the Trump administration to reverse rules put in place after the 2008 financial crisis.Celebrity chef exits: Mario Batali, facing accusations of sexual misconduct, has been bought out by his restaurant partners.Tesla’s new strategy: The electric-car maker’s shift to online-only sales, after a push to open dealerships, has raised questions about its outlook. Snapshot: Above, LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers on Wednesday, when he passed Michael Jordan to become No. 4 on the list of the N.B.A.’s leading scorers. James, who wears No. 23 because of Jordan, has 32,311 points in his career.Artifact is recovered: Acting on a tip, the police in Ireland have recovered a mummified head believed to belong to an 800-year-old Crusader knight that was stolen from a medieval church crypt.Late-night comedy: “With all the terrible things going on right now, this year for Lent I’m not giving up anything,” Jimmy Kimmel said. “I’m just giving up, in general.” What we’re reading: This article in The New Yorker. Steven Erlanger, the chief diplomatic correspondent for Europe, writes: “If you think Fox News is ‘fair and balanced,’ Jane Mayer's reporting on the organization’s handling of President Trump will have you think again.”Cook: Match sweet, tangy citrus with peanuts and avocado for a satisfying salad.Listen: “Jerrod,” an invitation to a timid lover from Solange’s new album, “When I Get Home,” has an insistent, syncopated pulse, writes Jon Pareles.Go: The fourth wall breaks in “Suicide Forest,” a play about Japanese-American identity, revealing something so heart-stingingly tender that the whole work shifts. It’s being performed at the Bushwick Starr in Brooklyn.Read: The writer and illustrator Lucy Knisley explores fertility and complications during pregnancy in her memoir “Kid Gloves,”  new this week on our paperback nonfiction best-seller list.Smarter Living: March is Women’s History Month, all the more reason to look at travel tours led by and for women. Travel agents have seen a big uptick in interest since the start of the #MeToo movement, and the participants may be able to bond over stories of struggle and passion. We’ve highlighted four.Also, if your office has free snacks, we’ve collected some wide-ranging examples of how your peers are turning them into meals.If you’re about to open a can of something tasty, thank the French.In the late 1700s, Napoleon was on the move, invading Italy, Austria and Egypt. Feeding his enormous armies was a problem — he needed a way to keep food from spoiling.A confectioner, Nicolas Appert, spent years coming up with a successful process. He placed fruits, vegetables and meats in glass bottles, corked and wired them, then boiled the bottles for hours. He didn’t know he was killing microbes — he just knew that the more heat and less air, the better.By 1810, Napoleon’s government handed him a 12,000-franc prize and required him to publish a book, with the catchy title “The Art of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances for Many Years.”Glass, unfortunately, breaks. It was the British who developed the tin can.We end today on a somber note: Alex Trebek, the longtime host of “Jeopardy!”, announced on Wednesday that he has Stage IV pancreatic cancer. “I’m going to fight this,” Mr. Trebek, 78, said. “And I’m going to keep working.”That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— Chris and InyoungThank youTo Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and Mark Josephson for the break from the news. James K. Williamson put together Smarter Living and also wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the Green New Deal.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: “Notorious” nickname on the Supreme Court (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • NYT Cooking, a subscription service of The New York Times, has a guide to making and canning jam (in glass jars). Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Inyoung Kang is an editor and producer based in London.  @inyoungk Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — New Zealand's official privacy watchdog on Monday described Facebook as ""morally bankrupt"" and suggested his country follow neighboring Australia's lead by making laws that could jail executives over streamed violence such as the Christchurch mosque shootings.Privacy Commissioner John Edwards has been critical of Facebook's response to a gunman using the platform to livestream some of the slaughter of 50 worshippers and the wounding of 50 more at two mosques on March 15.Edwards made his comments after Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg recently rejected calls to introduce a delay in his livestreaming service Facebook Live, saying it would interfere with the interactivity of livestreaming.""Facebook cannot be trusted. They are morally bankrupt pathological liars who enable genocide (Myanmar), facilitate foreign undermining of democratic institutions,"" Edwards posted on Twitter.Facebook has been criticized for not doing enough to police hate speech in Myanmar, where a government campaign against minority Rohinyga Muslims has been described by the UN as ethnic cleansing. The platform has also been at the center of claims that Russia meddled in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.Facebook responded to Edward's post with a statement that said its chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, had recently shared the policy and technical steps the company was taking to strengthen the rules for using Facebook Live, address hate on Facebook platforms and support the New Zealand community.""We are deeply committed to strengthening our policies, improving our technology and working with experts to keep Facebook safe,"" the statement said.Edwards, who is tasked with protecting New Zealanders' personal information according to the country's Privacy Act, said that governments needed to come together and ""force the platforms to find a solution"" to the problem of livestreaming of atrocities like the Christchurch slayings as well as suicides and rapes.""It may be that regulating, as Australia has done just in the last week, would be a good interim way to get their attention and say: 'Unless you can demonstrate the safety of these services, you simply can't use them,'"" Edwards told Radio NZ.Edwards regards himself as an advocate for Christchurch victims who had their right to privacy violated by having their deaths broadcast via Facebook to the world in real time.His office said the privacy commissioner had taken to making his criticism of Facebook about its lack of livestreaming safeguards public ""because he has few other options.""""Under the current Privacy Act, his office has no penalties it can impose on global tech companies like Facebook,"" the commissioner's office said in a statement.""His only resort is to publicly name Facebook for not ensuring its livestreaming service is a safe platform which does not compound the original harm caused by the Christchurch killings,"" the statement added.The Australian Parliament on Thursday passed some of the most restrictive laws about online communication in the democratic world.It is now a crime in Australia for social media platforms not to quickly remove ""abhorrent violent material."" The crime would be punishable by three years in prison and a fine of 10.5 million Australian dollars ($7.5 million), or 10% of the platform's annual turnover, whichever is larger.The Digital Industry Group Inc. — an association representing the digital industry in Australia including Facebook, Google and Twitter — said taking down abhorrent content was a ""highly complex problem"" that required consultation with a range of experts, which the government had not done.Australia wants to take its law to a Group of 20 countries forum in Japan as a template for holding social media companies to account.New Zealand's Justice Minister Andrew Little said last week his government had also made a commitment to review the role of social media and the obligations of the companies that provide the platforms. He said he had asked officials to look at the effectiveness of current hate speech laws and whether there were gaps that need to be filled.Facebook last year disregarded Edwards' ruling that it had breached the Privacy Act by not releasing information to a New Zealand man who wanted to know what others were saying about him on the social network.Facebook argued that it was not bound by New Zealand's Privacy Act because it was based overseas, but later agreed to comply with the local law.New Zealand's Parliament is amending the Act to give the privacy commissioner more powers and to clarify that offshore companies that hold information about New Zealanders must comply with the Act.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IsaacSAN FRANCISCO — My favorite new social network doesn’t incessantly spam me with notifications. When I post, I’m not bombarded with @mentions from bots and trolls. And after I use it, I don’t worry about ads following me around the web.That’s because my new social network is an email newsletter. Every week or so, I blast it out to a few thousand people who have signed up to read my musings. Some of them email back, occasionally leading to a thoughtful conversation. It’s still early in the experiment, but I think I love it.The newsletter is not a new phenomenon. But there is a growing interest among those who are disenchanted with social media in what the writer Craig Mod has called “the world’s oldest networked publishing platform.” For us, the inbox is becoming a more attractive medium than the news feed.The shift toward newsletters is part of a broader change. For years, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, asked us to live in a more “open and connected” version of the world. And billions of us did, posting status updates, photos and videos on the social network and flocking to other services like Twitter, where I post regular messages about my mood, personified in photos of my dog.Now, more of us are moving toward private modes of sharing: a Slack group instead of a tweet; an encrypted Signal message instead of a status update.Even the titans of public sharing have recognized the shift. In early March, Mr. Zuckerberg said that Facebook would focus on private conversations rather than public posts in the future.For me, the change has happened slowly but the reasons for it were unmistakable. Every time I was on Twitter, I felt worse. I worried about being too connected to my phone, too wrapped up in the latest Twitter dunks. A colleague created his own digital detox program to reduce his smartphone addiction. I reckon he made the right choice.Now, when I feel the urge to tweet an idea that I think is worth expounding on, I save it for my newsletter, The Dump (an accurate description of what spills out of my head). It’s much more fun than mediating political fights between relatives on my Facebook page or decoding the latest Twitter dust-up.A new crop of start-ups like Substack and Revue has emerged to cater to this desire to make direct connections with others online without the noise that comes with Twitter or Facebook feeds. They do it by making it easy to start a newsletter, offering dead-simple writing programs and insights into what’s getting read. (I use Substack, and I tend to find out immediately when my writing is terrible, either via the company’s analytics system or from reader emails urging me to stop being weird.)Christopher Best, Substack’s chief executive, said the company’s creation was driven by feelings like the ones I was having. “We felt this growing sense of despair in traditional social media,” he said. “Twitter, Facebook, etc. — they’ve all incentivized certain negative patterns.”What firms like Substack and Revue make possible is more personal than the wave of newsletters that emerged in the early 2000s from companies like Daily Candy, Flavorpill, Nonsense NYC and Oh My Rockness. Those brands mostly blasted lifestyle content out to the masses, targeting city residents with disposable income and attracting millions of dollars in venture capital, said Naveen Selvadurai, an entrepreneur and partner at the start-up incubator Expa.More recently, media start-ups like The Skimm, a daily newsletter started by two former NBC producers, have grown from dozens of readers to millions. (The New York Times is a minority investor in The Skimm.) Axios has tapped into the newsletter market with a focus on politics and business. Other big media companies — Vox, BuzzFeed, CNN — have latched on to the trend as they seek a deeper bond with readers.Newsletters could be a more reliable means of increasing readership for major publishers whose relationships with social networks have soured. Remember when Facebook moved away from promoting videos on the platform? Or when it decided to show more posts from friends and family, and de-emphasize content from publishers and brands? With every shift, big media companies had to adjust.“Publishers have learned the hard way that traffic from social media is too volatile,” said Martijn de Kuijper, Revue’s chief executive.For me, a guy writing dispatches from home in his pajamas, email offers a more personal connection between writer and audience. Since beginning The Dump, I’ve traded emails with people who might have followed me on Twitter but felt more comfortable talking with me one on one.That direct connection creates a sense of loyalty between writer and reader that can be difficult to achieve on websites or social networks. Establishing such a bond, Mr. de Kuijper said, increases the likelihood that people will read you what you have to say.Most enticing of all, I own my audience for The Dump, which I created using tools from Substack. And in contrast to what happens if I quit Facebook or Twitter, I can keep my fans — an ample email subscriber list — if I decide to leave Substack’s service.“You don’t have to fight an algorithm to reach your audience,” Casey Newton, a journalist who writes The Interface, a daily newsletter for the technology news site The Verge, told me. “With newsletters, we can rebuild all of the direct connections to people we lost when the social web came along.”It can be more than just a creative endeavor: Newsletters can make a fine one-person business. Writers can charge readers to a monthly fee for their newsletters. Substack takes a cut of that fee; Revue charges writers using a tiered-pricing system based on the size of newsletter’s subscriber base.Luke O’Neil, an independent writer, charges $6.66 a month for a subscription to his widely read, offbeat newsletter, “Welcome to Hell World.” He has 4,000 subscribers, 700 of whom pay for his regular dispatches.“I want to be myself, which is weird, angry and aggressively depressed,” Mr. O’Neil told me. “It turns out, there are enough people out there who also like the same things I do. With a little luck, it just might work.”My newsletter is free and I may never charge for it (it is, after all, an experiment and I have a job at The Times). But it could help me promote my other work, like  a book I’m completing or my Times articles.Using this method of private sharing is already affecting the way I post things publicly. Since January, I have consistently tweeted 15 to 30 percent less each week than I did the week before, according to Twitter’s summaries of my account activity (some of my followers may be grateful). I’m also using my smartphone less.To be clear: I don’t intend to give up my low-grade Twitter addiction. I have built meaningful friendships on the platform, and it’s been a pathway for people to discover my work.But perhaps next time I want to muse on something more nuanced, I won’t immediately blurt it out to the Twitter-verse, only to be lost in a sea of other tweets, or to have Twitter make money off my ideas by sandwiching it between ads.Instead, I’ll save it for my newsletter following — the one that belongs to me.Don’t follow Mike Isaac on Twitter. Try his newsletter: mikeIsaac.substack.comAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBy Jeremy EngleBefore reading the article: Do you ever think about how much you and your family throw away?What’s in your trash? Could other people still use it? Do you ever feel guilty about tossing it out? Do you ever give away, or donate things, you don’t need?Americans throw away hundreds of millions of tons of trash each year. The average person produces nearly five pounds of trash each day, while a family creates about 17.4 pounds of trash daily, which adds up to roughly 1,600 pounds per person and 6,000 pounds per family each year.If you piled all the trash Americans produce in a year, it would reach the moon and back 25 times!Jake Orta, 56, an Air Force veteran, is one of hundreds of people in San Francisco who earn their living from the garbage other people have thrown out.First, look at the photographs featured in the article. What can you tell about the life of a full-time trash picker in San Francisco? What story do these photographs tell?Now, read the article, “In San Francisco, Making a Living From Your Billionaire Neighbor’s Trash,” and answer the following questions: 1. The article begins, “Three blocks from Mark Zuckerberg’s $10 million Tudor home in San Francisco, Jake Orta lives in a small, single-window studio apartment filled with trash.” Why did Thomas Fuller, the author, start with this comparison? What details does he provide in the next two paragraphs to further describe the setting? What kind of picture do they paint? 2. The author writes that “trash scavengers exist in many United States cities and, like the rampant homelessness in San Francisco, are a signpost of the extremes of American capitalism.” What does this statement mean? How does he support this claim?3. How much does Mr. Orta earn a day from the trash he finds? Describe the circuit he travels each day to find trash. What rules does he follow?4. Which biographical details about Mr. Orta did you find most interesting? Why has he struggled with homelessness through his adult life?5. Why does Robert Reed, the spokesman for Recology, the company that collects garbage in San Francisco, say much of the waste in his city is the “trash of convenience”? How is this beneficial to Mr. Orta’s search for valuable garbage?6. How does Mr. Orta compare to other trash pickers in San Francisco? Why does he see himself as more of a “treasure hunter” than a trash picker?7. What are some of the most notable items Mr. Orta has found in other people’s garbage. Which does he consider his favorite? Which is the most intriguing to you?Finally, tell us more about what you think: — What is your reaction to Mr. Orta’s journey from Air Force member to homeless person to treasure hunter?— Nick Marzano, an Australian photographer who documents the world of trash pickers in San Francisco, calls the occupation of trash pickers like Mr. Orta “a civic service.” Do you agree?— What does it say about our society that some live off the items that are discarded by others? Do you agree with the author that it is a “signpost of the extremes of American capitalism”? Do you disagree? Why?— Does the article make you rethink what and how much you throw away? If yes, how has it changed how you might now handle the items you would normally consider garbage?— What’s the coolest thing you ever found in the trash? Did you ever wonder how or why it got there? Do you agree with the saying “one person’s trash is another person’s treasure”?— In 1962, John Steinbeck wrote:American cities are like badger holes, ringed with trash — all of them — surrounded by piles of wrecked and rusting automobiles, and almost smothered with rubbish. Everything we use comes in boxes, cartons, bins, the so-called packaging we love so much. The mountains of things we throw away are much greater than the things we use. In this, if no other way, we can see the wild and reckless exuberance of our production, and waste seems to be the index.What do you think of his perspective on American waste? Is it still true? What, if anything, has changed? What does what we throw away say about our society?Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseBy James B. StewartJeff Bezos and his wife, MacKenzie, may be the first billionaire couple with a huge stake in an enormous technology company to announce their divorce.They won’t be the last.The surprise announcement last week that the Bezoses would divorce after 25 years of marriage instantly raised questions about the future of their 16 percent, roughly $140 billion stake in Amazon. As its founder, chairman, chief executive and largest shareholder, Mr. Bezos exerts almost complete control over the company he created.The big question is, now what? Will Ms. Bezos sell her portion of the family’s vast Amazon holdings? Will she seek a seat on the company’s board? Will she push for big strategic or management changes?The Bezos divorce could have consequences for investors in other companies with billionaire founders — Google, Facebook, Groupon and Snap, to name a few. Unlike Mr. Bezos, who owns Amazon shares with ordinary voting rights, these tech entrepreneurs wield control of their companies by holding special classes of shares that confer extra power to their owners.To put it more explicitly: What would happen if Mark Zuckerberg and his wife filed for divorce?That’s not to suggest there’s anything amiss in the relationship between Mr. Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan, or with the marriages of controlling shareholders at any other giant tech company.[Who is MacKenzie Bezos? Her private life has become a public fascination.]But more such breakups are inevitable — after all, the divorce rate in California is about 60 percent, and many of the founders of high-flying Silicon Valley companies are only now reaching the age for the proverbial midlife crisis.The phenomenon of tech companies with controlling founders is still relatively recent. Google set a trend when it went public in 2004 with dual-class shares that enshrined Sergey Brin and Larry Page as the controlling owners. In the ensuing 15 years, about two-thirds of initial public stock offerings backed by venture capital funds have involved similar super-shares, according to Dealogic.The fate of such controlling shares in cases of divorce is, or should be, of intense interest to investors.David F. Larcker, director of the Corporate Governance Research Initiative at Stanford’s business school and a co-author of “Separation Anxiety: The Impact of CEO Divorce on Shareholders,” said his research showed that “shareholders should pay attention to matters involving the personal lives of C.E.O.s and take this information into account when making investment decisions.”The law doesn’t explicitly require controlling shareholders to disclose prenuptial or other agreements that could affect the disposal of their company stakes in the event of divorce. But some experts said they would support such a requirement.“It’s absolutely material, and as a result it should be disclosed,” said John C. Coffee Jr., director of the Center for Corporate Governance at Columbia University. In theory, he said, any provision that would reassure investors would lead to a higher share price. “There’s no question it’s in the best interests of shareholders,” he said.Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the corporate governance center at the University of Delaware, also supports the disclosure of prenuptial agreements. “No one thought a Bezos divorce was a risk factor” for Amazon, Mr. Elson said. “Now no one knows how this will turn out. From a shareholder perspective, it’s certainly material.”Mr. Larcker said requiring public disclosure might be going a little too far, considering the privacy issues involved. But he agreed that, at the least, a board needed to be kept fully informed.“Once a divorce settlement is underway,” he said, “the board needs to think about whether the ex-spouse will demand a board seat, whether they are planning to liquidate their shares or perhaps sell as a block to an investor, maybe an activist. All of these actions can have a real impact on shareholder value.”So far, investors have hardly reacted to the Bezos breakup — Amazon’s shares are up slightly since the announcement. That might be partly because the couple went out of their way to characterize the split as amicable, saying they plan to “continue our shared lives as friends.”When many billions of dollars are at stake, amicable divorces are rare, even when they start out that way. “Most divorces start out contentious and end contentious,” said Samantha Bley DeJean, a matrimonial lawyer in San Francisco, who has worked with many Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and represents Angelina Jolie in her custody battle with Brad Pitt. “When they start out amicably, you hold out some hope that they’ll stay that way, but in my experience it only gets worse.”In 2017 Mark Pincus, the billionaire founder of the internet game company Zynga, and Alison Gelb Pincus filed for divorce. The two had a prenuptial agreement, which hasn’t been made public, but presumably addressed the issue of Mr. Pincus’s 70 percent voting stake in Zynga. In an interview with The New York Times last year, Mr. Pincus said the split was amicable.After the couple filed for divorce, Mr. Pincus converted his super-voting shares into ordinary shares, reducing his voting control of Zynga to about 10 percent. He told The Times that the conversion had nothing to do with the divorce.Ms. Pincus is an entrepreneur in her own right: she helped found the online retailer One Kings Lane, which was sold in 2016 to Bed Bath & Beyond for nearly $30 million. The Pincuses quietly finalized their divorce last year on terms that haven’t been made public. Zynga hasn’t disclosed any changes in Mr. Pincus’s shareholdings since then.A spokeswoman for Zynga, where Mr. Pincus remains executive chairman, declined to comment. Ms. DeJean, who represented Ms. Pincus, said she couldn’t discuss the case. But in general, she said, the fact that both spouses are extremely wealthy typically doesn’t change the dynamics of a divorce.“It becomes a matter of principle,” she said, “and principles can be dangerous in these situations, especially when there’s enough money to litigate them.”In their 2010 divorce, Steve and Elaine Wynn, the founders of the casino company Wynn Resorts, each received half of the couple’s 36 percent controlling stake in the company, valued then at $1.4 billion. To maintain Mr. Wynn’s control, Ms. Wynn agreed to vote her shares along with her ex-husband.At the time, the arrangement seemed amicable: Ms. Wynn warmly described Mr. Wynn as her “partner of 41 years and father of her children,” and Mr. Wynn said he was delighted that his ex-wife would remain on the company’s board.That didn’t last long. After two acrimonious years, Ms. Wynn was forced off the board and sued to regain voting control of her shares.The animosity only deepened after The Wall Street Journal reported last year that Mr. Wynn had repeatedly sexually harassed Wynn employees and had paid a manicurist $7.5 million after she told others that Mr. Wynn had forced her to have sex.That led Mr. Wynn to step down as chief executive. He sold his shares, leaving his former wife as the company’s largest shareholder. Since peaking in 2014, Wynn shares have fallen by more than half.Mr. Larcker’s research found that among 24 chief executives who got divorced between 2009 and 2012, seven (29 percent) stepped down within two years of the divorce settlement.Ms. DeJean said she had recently drafted numerous prenuptial agreements for young entrepreneurs. Negotiating them is delicate: It’s not especially romantic to be discussing the disposal of assets in a divorce proceeding in the middle of a courtship or engagement.The idea of making those prenuptial terms public could be anathema to such clients.Still, Ms. DeJean said, “I can see why investors would want to know.”An earlier version of this column paraphrased incorrectly Mark Pincus’s comments about the conversion of his shares in Zynga. He said the conversion of his super-voting shares into ordinary shares had nothing to do with his divorce from Alison Gelb Pincus; he made no reference to a lawsuit.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta and Melina Delkic(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Meng Wanzhou heads to court, Tesla and Facebook rethink their strategies and Virgin Atlantic makes lipstick optional. Here’s the latest:The Supreme Court of British Columbia will decide whether the Huawei executive, who has been detained since December, should be extradited to the United States, where she faces fraud charges. The proceedings began on Wednesday, with the court setting a date for the hearing.What to expect: Canada approves about 90 percent of the extradition requests it receives, so it is likely that Ms. Meng will be sent to the U.S., though it could take months.The judge will determine whether the fraud that Ms. Meng is charged with in the United States is also a crime in Canada.Her lawyers, however, will argue that the charges are politically motivated, which could potentially help her case.In other Canada news: Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s former top adviser and close friend, Gerald Butts, testified before a parliamentary committee, trying to defuse a political scandal that has threatened Mr. Trudeau’s job.The United States imported more goods than ever last year, bringing its trade deficit with the rest of the world to $891.3 billion.President Trump has long been fixated on narrowing the trade deficit, which he believes is a measure of whether countries around the world are taking advantage of the U.S. Though few economists share that view, the new figures suggest that by his own metric, Mr. Trump is failing.Reasons: The increase in the amount of goods imported was driven, in part, by a broader economic slowdown and the strength of the U.S. dollar, both of which weakened global demand for American exports.The Trump administration’s trade war and tax cuts exacerbated the trend. In fact, the U.S. imported a record amount of goods from China, despite Mr. Trump’s tariffs on billions of dollars’ worth of Chinese goods, and American exports to China fell by nearly 50 percent in December. And money from the tax cuts helped Americans buy more imported goods.Made in America: Four companies in the U.S. were found to have falsely advertised that their products were American-made when in fact they were manufactured in China. After the North Korean leader returned from his meeting with President Trump in Hanoi, Vietnam, without any sanctions relief, experts around the world wondered what he would do next.American and South Korean analysts announced on Tuesday that the country was rebuilding key missile-testing facilities, raising concerns that it was preparing to resume testing its weapons.The reasoning: North Korea may have wanted to rebuild the sites in order to make their dismantling more dramatic if the Hanoi summit meeting produced a deal, the intelligence officials were quoted as saying, or it may have wanted the option to resume rocket tests if talks broke down.The flip side: Other experts believe that a weak economy may force Mr. Kim back to the negotiating table.North Korea’s economy contracted by 3.5 percent in 2017 because of sanctions, according to South Korea’s central bank. And United Nations officials estimate that food production last year fell to its lowest level in more than a decade.After years of scandals surrounding user privacy, the world’s largest social network will prioritize private and encrypted communication between users, shifting away from its founding principles of public sharing and an open platform.“I believe a privacy-focused communications platform will become even more important than today’s open platforms,” Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said in a blog post.Details: Mr. Zuckerberg said he planned to spend the years ahead building systems and products that create a type of “digital living room” where people can communicate privately across all of the company’s networks — Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger.In other business news: Tesla is shutting down most of its stores — just three months after a sprint to open new locations — in an effort to cut costs at a time when investor confidence in the company and its founder, Elon Musk, is wavering. Grab: The Singapore-based ride-hailing giant, which serves eight countries in Southeast Asia, secured a $1.5 billion investment from SoftBank, bringing its current valuation to about $14 billion, according to a person briefed on the matter.Carlos Ghosn: The former Nissan chairman may have gotten out on bail before his trial — a relatively rare feat in Japan — but he faces steep odds: Japanese prosecutors have a 99 percent conviction rate with indicted defendants.Michael Cohen: Six checks from President Trump to his former personal lawyer that were obtained by The Times show how he paid to keep secrets private while in the White House.Solomon Islands: An oil spill from a Hong Kong-flagged cargo ship that ran aground last month is spreading toward a World Heritage site, East Rennell, alarming environmentalists and government officials. Officials in Australia, which has a close relationship with the Solomon Islands, said they would send vessels, equipment and experts to help contain the damage.Italy: The Benetton family, known widely for its clothing brand, also owns Autostrade per l’Italia, or Highways for Italy, a private company that managed the bridge that collapsed in Genoa last year, killing 43 people. The calamity is now the subject of a criminal inquiry.Virgin Atlantic: The British airline sent a note to its female flight attendants, instantly recognizable in their sleek red skirts and crimson lipstick, that they no longer have to wear any makeup and can choose to wear pants.Goldman Sachs: Executives at the Wall Street giant told employees in an internal memo that the company would be adopting a more “flexible” dress code in an attempt to lure younger workers who might be considering careers in Silicon Valley, where jeans and sneakers are the norm.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Match sweet, tangy citrus with peanuts and avocado for a satisfying salad.Tours by and for women have grown in popularity, from bonding on a polar bear cruise in Norway to a cultural retreat in Calgary. Here are four destinations to consider.Lighting, textiles, throw pillows and smells: There are ways to style a room on a budget; all you really need is a bit of imagination and patience.If you’re about to open a can of something tasty, thank the French. And the British.In the late 1700s, Napoleon was on the move, invading Italy, Austria and Egypt. Feeding his enormous armies was a problem — he needed a way to keep food from spoiling.A confectioner, Nicolas Appert, spent years coming up with a successful process. He placed fruits, vegetables and meats in glass bottles, corked and wired them, then boiled the bottles for hours. He didn’t know he was killing microbes — he just knew that the more heat and less air, the better.By 1810, Napoleon’s government handed him a 12,000-franc prize and required him to publish a book, with the catchy title, “The Art of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances for Many Years.”Glass, unfortunately, breaks. It was the British who soon developed the tin can.James K. Williamson wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Nick CorasanitiIn his six years in the Senate, Cory Booker has progressed from a moderate who defended private equity to a leading progressive voice on issues like criminal justice reform and marijuana legalization. As he transitions to a national presidential campaign, which he announced Friday, the candidate has been focusing on some key issues that animate the left wing of the Democratic Party.Mr. Booker has made criminal justice reform a cornerstone of his Senate tenure. He sought early on to craft bipartisan bills that would have changed penalties for nonviolent crimes and reduced prison sentences, though neither effort became law. Late last year, Congress passed a criminal justice reform act, signed by President Trump, that Mr. Booker had originally sponsored. But during his time as mayor, Newark’s police department faced accusations of brutality and intimidation, and the Department of Justice launched an investigation into the department; Mr. Booker said he “welcomed” the inquiry.In 2017, Mr. Booker announced his support for the Medicare for All Act drafted by Senator Bernie Sanders, and reiterated his support in an interview after he announced his candidacy Friday, saying “I signed up and am a big believer in Medicare for all.” But as a senator from New Jersey who had received millions in campaign contributions from the pharmaceutical industry, Mr. Booker had been reluctant to focus regulatory efforts on the industry, voting against a measure in 2017 that would have greatly reduced drug prices by allowing imports from Canada. He has since reversed course, announcing his support this year for Mr. Sanders’s bill to rein in prescription drug costs.Mr. Booker said Friday that “environmental justice” will be one of the three top policy issues of his campaign. He has recently signed on to endorse the Green New Deal, a progressive litmus test on the environment pushed by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, that pushes for investments in clean-energy infrastructure and policies to directly address climate change.From his time as mayor of Newark, Mr. Booker has been a strong champion of charter schools, a stance that runs counter to the progressive Democratic base. And it’s a position that he continues to hold. He said in a 2018 interview that “my loyalty is to a free public school, high-quality public school education,’’ adding that this includes charter schools.Education reform also gave Mr. Booker his most high-profile moment as mayor of Newark, when he went on The Oprah Winfrey Show with Gov. Chris Christie to announce that Mark Zuckerberg would be donating $100 million to turn around Newark’s ailing school system. Though Mr. Booker defends the reforms made with the money, many critics have said it was not put to good use, and the city’s system continued to teeter.Mr. Booker has long been a proponent of many core Democratic issues, such as protecting a woman’s right to choose and favoring same-sex marriage. He presided over New Jersey’s first same-sex marriage ceremonies as a senator-elect in 2013. From his position on the Senate Judiciary Committee, he recently challenged Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo over their views on gay rights.In 2017, Mr. Booker introduced legislation that would have legalized marijuana and expunged federal marijuana convictions from criminal records. While the bill had no hope of passing the Republican-held senate, Mr. Booker reiterated his support for legalizing marijuana after announcing his candidacy, telling a radio show that he was for “changing our drug laws, ending prohibition against marijuana.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCanada LetterBy Ian AustenUnlike the last American presidential election, there was no obvious cybermeddling when Canadians voted in 2015 (nor, for that matter, are there signs of it in Alberta, where I’m writing this week’s newsletter as residents get ready to vote on Tuesday).This week, however, Canada’s digital security and spy agency reiterated its warning that the country won’t be immune from foreign online interference in the federal election this October.[Want the Canada Letter in your inbox every week? Sign up here.]Canada’s federal government has been on to this for some time. It recently passed a law regulating foreign election interference through the social media giants Facebook, YouTube (which is owned by Google) and Twitter.But when Karina Gould, the minister for democratic institutions, released the Communications Security Establishment’s report this week, she said she was frustrated by an apparent lack of willingness by those companies to take the issue seriously.“I’m not feeling great about where we are right now,” Ms. Gould said.[Read: Canada, Rebuking Tech Giants, Braces for Possible Election Interference]For a government that has otherwise courted those companies to set up engineering centers, particularly around A.I., it was an extraordinary rebuke. And Ms. Gould doubled down. Given that lack of cooperation, Ms. Gould said that the government is scouring its existing laws to see what it can use to force compliance, and that it is looking around the world for examples of additional laws and regulations to introduce.Here’s a quick guide as to how other governments are regulating social media or steps they are proposing:• With a sweeping data privacy bill that went into effect almost a year ago, the European Union is widely seen as the world’s leader in regulating social media. It’s also encouraging other countries to match its measures, recently signing a data agreement with Japan. Adam Satariano wrote this definitive overview of how the regulations work.Using the law, regulators in France fined Google 50 million euros this year, in part for not making it clear how it uses people’s data to sell advertising.• After the horrific shooting in Christchurch, New Zealand, the Australian government rushed through a bill that would jail executives of social media and impose staggering fines if they fail to quickly remove “abhorrent violent material.” But my colleague Damien Cave, who also writes the Australia Letter, reported that Australia’s haste, with little in the way of consultations about the law, may leave it vulnerable to legal challenges.In light of Australia’s actions, Damien also wrote a superb global overview on dealing with tech monoliths.• On the same day that Ms. Gould spoke in Canada, a parliamentary committee in Britain released proposals for reining in social media companies, something that embattled Prime Minister Theresa May has said is a key priority.• Singapore unveiled draft legislation this month to stop the spread of false information. Critics fear it may be used to stifle opponents of the government.• In India, the government has proposed giving itself sweeping powers to remove internet content. Vindu Goel, one of my colleagues based there, found that many people are drawing comparisons with China’s internet censorship.• Last year Germany started a crackdown on digital hate speech that was informed by its history, and that goes beyond even the European Union’s strict measures. It further tightened restrictions on data gathering by Facebook in February.• And after long being a laggard on internet privacy and regulation, the United States is now taking interest.Last month Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, said that it was time to regulate his company.And make sure you read this provocative column, published in Opinion this week by the longtime tech writer and, more recently, Times columnist Kara Swisher.“Let me be clear — I love technology, including my deeply felt relationship with that iPhone that spans decades now,” she wrote. “But it has never been more urgent to put up some guardrails. While I do not consider the behemoth tech companies monsters, they can and do act monstrously.”___This week’s Trans Canada and Around The Times highlights were compiled by Lindsey Wiebe, the Canada audience growth editor.—It’s “very likely that Canadian voters will encounter some form of foreign cyber interference” in the election this October, according to a report by Canada’s electronic eavesdropping and security agency.—Facebook has banned several far-right groups and figures in Canada, including Faith Goldy, who ran for mayor of Toronto last year.—It’s an inescapable fact of life in Resolute Bay, Nunavut: In spite of the frigid temperatures, the ice is melting. And that means the Russians are coming.—A Toronto jury has proposed new safety recommendations seven years after a stage roof collapsed at a Radiohead concert and killed a technician.—Racism was entrenched in Nova Scotia when Joan Jones, who died this month at 79, moved there in the 1960s. She knew she had to change that.—Canada has reached its lowest poverty rate in history, David Brooks writes in the Opinion section. What’s its secret?—Boeing and the airlines that rely on its planes have been scrambling to adjust since the 737 Max was grounded. And with no timeline for the return of the Max, costs are mounting.—A man infected with the newly discovered Candida auris fungus died after being hospitalized for 90 days. But the germ did not — and proved so invasive the hospital had to rip out parts of the floor and ceiling to eradicate it.—There are small ways to improve any job, and those incremental improvements can add up to major increases in job satisfaction.A native of Windsor, Ontario, Ian Austen was educated in Toronto, lives in Ottawa and has reported about Canada for The New York Times for the past 15 years. Follow him on Twitter at @ianrausten.We love reading your feedback on this newsletter. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to nytcanada@nytimes.com. And if you haven’t done so, please take moment and subscribe to the email newsletter version.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressToday in HistoryToday is Wednesday, April 10, the 100th day of 2019. There are 265 days left in the year.Today's Highlight in History:On April 10, 1865, Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee, a day after surrendering the Army of Northern Virginia at Appomattox Court House, said farewell to his men, praising them for their ""unsurpassed courage and fortitude.""On this date:In 1866, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals was incorporated.In 1912, the British liner RMS Titanic set sail from Southampton, England, on its ill-fated maiden voyage.In 1916, the Professional Golfers' Association of America was founded in New York.In 1925, the F. Scott Fitzgerald novel ""The Great Gatsby"" was first published by Scribner's of New York.In 1932, German President Paul Von Hindenburg was re-elected in a runoff, with Adolf Hitler coming in second.In 1947, Brooklyn Dodgers President Branch Rickey purchased the contract of Jackie Robinson from the Montreal Royals.In 1962, Stuart Sutcliffe, the Beatles' original bass player, died in Hamburg, West Germany, at age 21.In 1968, ""In the Heat of the Night"" won best picture of 1967 at the 40th Academy Awards; one of its stars, Rod Steiger, was named best actor while Katharine Hepburn was honored as best actress for ""Guess Who's Coming to Dinner.""In 1971, a table tennis team from the United States arrived in China at the invitation of the communist government for a goodwill visit that came to be known as ""ping-pong diplomacy.""In 1981, imprisoned IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands was declared the winner of a by-election to the British Parliament.In 1998, the Northern Ireland peace talks concluded as negotiators reached a landmark settlement to end 30 years of bitter rivalries and bloody attacks.In 2010, Polish President Lech Kaczynski (lehk kah-CHIN'-skee), 60, was killed in a plane crash in western Russia that also claimed the lives of his wife and top Polish political, military and church officials.Ten years ago: Police in Tracy, California, arrested Sunday school teacher Melissa Huckaby in connection with the death of 8-year-old Sandra Cantu, whose body had been found in a suitcase. (Huckaby eventually pleaded guilty to kidnapping and murdering her daughter's playmate; she was sentenced to life without parole.) French Navy commandos stormed a sailboat held by pirates off the Somali coast, freeing four hostages; however, one hostage was killed in the operation.Five years ago: A bus carrying 44 students from Southern California for a free tour of Humboldt State University on the state's far north coast collided with a FedEx tractor-trailer near Orland; five students and three adult chaperones died, along with the drivers. A woman was taken into custody after throwing a shoe at Hillary Clinton as the former secretary of state began a Las Vegas convention keynote speech; the shoe missed. KISS, Nirvana and Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band were ushered into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame at Brooklyn's Barclays Center. CBS named Stephen Colbert to succeed the retiring David Letterman as host of the ""Late Show.""One year ago: During five hours of questioning from a U.S. Senate panel, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg batted away accusations that he had failed to protect the personal information of millions of Americans from Russians intent on upsetting the U.S. election, though he conceded that Facebook needed to work harder to make sure the tools it creates are used in ""good and healthy"" ways. The international chemical weapons watchdog said it was sending a fact-finding mission to a Syrian town where a suspected chemical gas attack had taken place over the weekend.Today's Birthdays: Actor Max von Sydow is 90. Actress Liz Sheridan is 90. Football Hall of Famer John Madden is 83. Reggae artist Bunny Wailer is 72. Actor Steven Seagal is 67. Folk-pop singer Terre Roche (The Roches) is 66. Actor Peter MacNicol is 65. Actress Olivia Brown is 62. Rock musician Steven Gustafson (10,000 Maniacs) is 62. Singer-producer Kenneth ""Babyface"" Edmonds is 61. Rock singer-musician Brian Setzer is 60. Rock singer Katrina Leskanich (les-KAH'-nich) is 59. Actor Jeb Adams is 58. Olympic gold medal speedskater Cathy Turner is 57. Rock musician Tim ""Herb"" Alexander is 54. R-and-B singer Kenny Lattimore is 52. Actor-comedian Orlando Jones is 51. Rock musician Mike Mushok (Staind) is 50. Rapper Q-Tip (AKA Kamaal) is 49. Former Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens is 45. Actor David Harbour is 44. Blues singer Shemekia Copeland is 40. Actress Laura Bell Bundy is 38. Actor Harry Hadden-Paton is 38. Actress Chyler Leigh is 37. Pop musician Andrew Dost (fun.) is 36. Actor Ryan Merriman is 36. Singer Mandy Moore is 35. Actor Barkhad Abdi (BAHRK'-hahd AHB'-dee) is 34. Actress Shay Mitchell is 32. Actor Haley Joel Osment is 31. Actress Molly Bernard (TV: ""Younger"") is 31. Country singer Maren Morris is 29. Actor Alex Pettyfer is 29. Actress-singer AJ (AKA Amanda) Michalka (mish-AL'-kah) is 28. Actress Daisy Ridley is 27. Singer-actress Sofia Carson is 26. Actress Audrey Whitby is 23. Actress Ruby Jerins is 21.Thought for Today: ""Work is something you can count on, a trusted, lifelong friend who never deserts you."" — Margaret Bourke-White, American photojournalist (1904-1971).Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — Britain proposed sweeping new government powers to regulate the internet to combat the spread of violent and extremist content, false information and harmful material aimed at children. The proposal, announced on Monday, would be one of the world’s most aggressive actions to rein in the most corrosive online content.The recommendations, backed by Prime Minister Theresa May, take direct aim at Facebook, Google and other large internet platforms that policymakers believe have made growth and profits a priority over curbing harmful material. The government called for naming an internet regulator with the power to issue fines, block access to websites if necessary and make individual executives legally liable for harmful content spread on their platforms.“The internet can be brilliant at connecting people across the world, but for too long these companies have not done enough to protect users, especially children and young people, from harmful content,” Ms. May said in a statement. “That is not good enough, and it is time to do things differently.”By introducing the proposal even as a deadline nears for Britain to exit the European Union, Ms. May signaled that enacting the new internet regulations was a high priority of her government.Around the world, governments are having a broader debate about reining in the internet and whether their actions will restrict free expression. Frustrated by what they see as a lack of progress to protect users, governments are passing or considering new laws to define what classifies as acceptable online communication. Advocates for human rights and free speech warn that the policies will lead to censorship and be exploited by more repressive governments.After the massacre of 50 people at two   mosques in New Zealand in March, calls have increased globally for internet regulation. The authorities say the gunman distributed a racist manifesto online before using Facebook to live-stream the shooting. In response, Australia passed a law last week that threatens fines for social media companies and jail for their executives if they fail to rapidly remove “abhorrent violent material” from their platforms. New Zealand is also considering new restrictions.In Singapore, draft legislation was introduced last week that supporters said would restrict the spread of false and misleading information. But opponents have warned it could be used to go after critics of the government. India has also proposed broad new powers to regulate internet content. The European Union is debating a new terrorism content measure that some have warned is overly broad and will harm free expression. And Germany last year began prohibiting hate speech. Digital rights groups have criticized the law as leading to the unnecessary blocking of legitimate content.In response to the political backlash, internet companies have toughened their policies and hired tens of thousands of human moderators to screen for problematic material. But with billions of pieces of content being shared each day on services like Facebook, Instagram and YouTube, deciphering what is harmful isn’t always an easy task, and governments have criticized the companies for not being aggressive enough.In recent weeks, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, has said new regulations are needed, particularly to more clearly define what is acceptable content so companies aren’t the main judges.And Facebook took a similar stance in response to the British proposal. “New regulations are needed so that we have a standardized approach across platforms and private companies aren’t making so many important decisions alone,” Facebook said in a statement. “These are complex issues to get right and we look forward to working with the government and Parliament to ensure new regulations are effective.”Claire Lilley, a public policy manager for Google, said the company has invested in new technology and hired experts to address the problems raised by the government, and will work with policymakers to “to ensure a free, open and safer internet that works for everyone.”Twitter said in a statement that it would “engage in the discussion between industry and the U.K. government, as well as work to strike an appropriate balance between keeping users safe and preserving the internet’s open, free nature.”British officials are calling for the creation of a mandatory “duty of care” standard intended “to make companies take responsibility for the safety of their users and to tackle harm caused by content or activity on their services.”The government listed a number of topics that companies could be required to address or risk fines and other penalties. The list includes material thought to be supporting terrorism, inciting violence, encouraging suicide, disinformation, cyberbullying and inappropriate material accessible to children. The rules would apply to social media platforms, discussion forums, messaging services and search engines.The proposal is a first step in a longer legislative process. The recommendations will be debated over the coming months before any new laws and regulations are put in place.Actions in Britain and elsewhere signal a new era for the internet. Western democracies have largely avoided regulating online communication. But as evidence mounts that online actions are having harmful real-life consequences by contributing to violence, compromising elections and spreading hateful ideologies, governments are becoming more willing to intervene.In the United States, where free speech is more of a core value than other nations, there’s been less momentum to regulate internet content. But in Washington this week, the House Judiciary Committee will question executives from Facebook and Google on the spread of white nationalism on social media.“The era of self-regulation for online companies is over,” Jeremy Wright, Britain’s digital secretary, said in a statement. “Voluntary actions from industry to tackle online harms have not been applied consistently or gone far enough.” Technology,” he added, “can be an incredible force for good and we want the sector to be part of the solution in protecting their users. However, those that fail to do this will face tough action.”OpinionSarah JeongAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Knife crime on the rise in Britain, a new strategy at Facebook and the sordid market for Hitler paintings. Here’s the latest: Knife crime is rising for the fourth straight year in Britain — there were 43,000 such offenses in the year ending Sept. 30, 2018 — though over all it has declined markedly since the mid-1990s. Two recent fatal stabbings of 17-year-olds have refocused national attention on the problem and created a political crisis for Prime Minister Theresa May. The opposition Labour Party is blaming austerity for the rise in knife crime, and Mrs. May’s own home secretary, Sajid Javid, has clashed with her, demanding emergency increases in police funding.Analysis: There are more than 20,000 fewer police officers today than in 2010, and many now spend hours doing the work once done by mental health agencies that have been cut back or eliminated. But analysts largely agree that the data does not connect rising crime to diminished police presence. Instead, they point to austerity cuts to social services, like youth centers and interventions for children who are expelled from school. Looking ahead: Mrs. May said she would hold a summit in the coming days and meet with victims.The U.S. imported more goods than ever last year, bringing its trade deficit with the rest of the world to $891.3 billion.President Trump has long been fixated on narrowing the trade deficit, which he believes is a measure of whether other countries are taking advantage of the U.S. Though few economists share that view, the new figures suggest that by his own metric, Mr. Trump is failing.Reasons: The increase in the amount of imported goods was driven in part by a broader economic slowdown and the strength of the U.S. dollar, both of which weakened global demand for American exports. The U.S. imported a record amount of goods from China, despite Mr. Trump’s tariffs on billions of dollars’ worth of Chinese goods. American exports to China fell nearly 50 percent in December. U.S.-Europe trade talks: Negotiators are deeply at odds. The Trump administration has insisted that any deal must address American farmers’ access to the European market, but the E.U. says agriculture had always been off the table by agreement. The competing narratives have made it difficult to even begin talks, with Mr. Trump dangling the possibility of further tariffs in mid-May.  After years of scandals surrounding user privacy, the world’s largest social network will prioritize private and encrypted communication between users, shifting away from its founding principles of public sharing and an open platform.“I believe a privacy-focused communications platform will become even more important than today’s open platforms,” Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said in a blog post.Details: Mr. Zuckerberg said he planned to spend the years ahead building systems and products that create a type of “digital living room” where people can communicate privately across all of the company’s networks — Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger. He was vague on how long that would take or how private, encrypted communications would affect Facebook’s bottom line. In other business news: Tesla is shutting down most of its stores — just three months after a sprint to open new locations — in an effort to cut costs at a time when investor confidence in the company and its founder, Elon Musk, is wavering.In the last 10 years, experts say, a seedy niche market has grown around rising demand for art by Hitler. With experts in no rush to offer authentication, and his undistinguished style easy to copy, fraud appears to have flourished. Now German prosecutors are stepping in. Last month, they searched Weidler’s auction house in Nuremberg and confiscated scores of paintings as part of an investigation into forgery and fraud, and there was an earlier raid at the Kloss auction house in Berlin. An auction by Weidler’s of a few works recently went ahead anyway, and our reporter attended. Background: With 63 works impounded and an estimated 100 already sold, Weidler’s has handled a curiously large number of “A. Hitler” works, experts say, especially given how few are likely to exist. Hitler did most of his painting before World War I, after he was rejected from art school. Once in power, he ordered the works collected, and he may have destroyed some of the worst misfires. North Korea: The country’s deepening economic trouble may propel it to return to the negotiating table, experts say — or resume weapons tests to force a deal. Sexual assault: Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, told a hushed Senate hearing room that she had been sexually assaulted multiple times while serving her country.Brazil: As millions of Brazilians enjoyed the last few hours of Carnival, Jair Bolsonaro, the far-right president, posted a video on Twitter of one man urinating on another in public, which he called evidence of the festivities’ increasing debauchery.Solomon Islands: An oil spill in the South Pacific is spreading just outside a World Heritage site, threatening the coral reef ecosystems there. Iran: The lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh had defended women arrested for defying Iran’s head-covering rule. Now Ms. Sotudeh, 55, has been convicted of security-related crimes in a secret trial and could face a “very lengthy sentence,” a human rights group reported.Italy: To the frustration of U.S. and E.U. officials, the country appears poised to accept Chinese infrastructure investment that is part of a drive to advance China’s global interests and influence. Carlos Ghosn: The former Nissan chairman has been released on bail, a relatively rare feat in Japan, but he faces steep odds in his trial on charges of financial misconduct: Japanese prosecutors have a 99 percent conviction rate with indicted defendants.Virgin Atlantic: The British airline said that female flight attendants would no longer have to wear makeup or skirts.Ireland: Thanks to a tip, the police in Dublin recovered a mummified head believed to belong to an 800-year-old Crusader knight. A week earlier, it had been stolen from a medieval church crypt in the city. Switzerland: The star of the Geneva International Motor Show this week is a one-of-a-kind Bugatti supercar that has already sold for $19 million, reputedly the highest price ever paid for a new automobile. Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Match sweet, tangy citrus with peanuts and avocado for a satisfying salad.Tours by and for women have grown in popularity. From a polar bear cruise in Norway to a cultural retreat in Calgary, here are four destinations to consider.Lighting, textiles, throw pillows and smells: There are ways to style a room on a budget; all you really need is a bit of imagination and patience.If you’re about to open a can of something tasty, thank the French. And the British.In the late 1700s, Napoleon was on the move, invading Italy, Austria and Egypt. Feeding his enormous armies was a problem — he needed a way to keep food from spoiling.A confectioner, Nicolas Appert, spent years coming up with a successful process. He placed fruits, vegetables and meats in glass bottles, corked and wired them, then boiled the bottles for hours. He didn’t know he was killing microbes — he just knew that the more heat and less air, the better.By 1810, Napoleon’s government handed him a 12,000-franc prize and required him to publish a book, with the catchy title “The Art of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances for Many Years.”Glass, unfortunately, breaks. It was the British who soon developed the tin can.James K. Williamson wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe social network has disclosed an estimate for years, but a closer look raises lots of questions.By Jack NicasFacebook sells advertisers on its access to real people — 2.32 billion of them, a network that exceeds the populations of North America, South America and Africa combined.But do that many people really use Facebook? The answer lies partly in how many of the accounts are fake. The Silicon Valley company defines fake accounts as profiles that are either designed to break its rules, for example by spammers or scammers impersonating others, or that are misclassified, such as someone setting up a Facebook profile instead of a Facebook page for a business.Yet the number of Facebook accounts that fit those descriptions is less clear. While the company discloses its estimates of fake accounts, its figures have fluctuated and are confusing. Even Facebook admits its understanding of the numbers is tenuous. “Duplicate and false accounts are very difficult to measure at our scale,” it said in a securities filing in October, and the actual numbers “may vary significantly from our estimates.” With Facebook reporting a jump in the number of fake accounts on its site on Wednesday, let’s dig into what figures it has given before — and why they don’t necessarily add up. That has implications for the manipulation and abuse of the platform, as well as the company’s business.First take a look at how Facebook’s estimates for fake accounts, made in securities filings, have oscillated in recent years:What the table shows is that Facebook cut its estimate of fake accounts significantly in 2016. A year later, it more than quadrupled the estimate. And on Wednesday, in small print at the bottom of a slide about earnings, Facebook increased the estimate by 36 percent, to 116 million. So what’s going on?Facebook arrives at its estimates by analyzing a sample of accounts, looking “for names that appear to be fake or other behavior that appears inauthentic,” the company said in securities filings. “We apply significant judgment in making this determination.”Alex Schultz, Facebook’s vice president of analytics, said in an interview that its fake account estimates fluctuated in part because periodic attacks can cause spikes in the figures. He added that Facebook had grown in some emerging markets where fake accounts are more prevalent.For years, investors, analysts and journalists had only Facebook’s estimates to judge fake accounts. Last year, Facebook introduced a transparency page, which discloses how many fake accounts it has taken down each quarter. Those figures revealed that the scope was far larger than the estimates in securities filings had suggested.Let’s run through the math on this in more detail. Facebook’s new numbers added up to more than 2.8 billion fake accounts taken down in the 12 months that ended Sept. 30, or about 7.7 million a day.Facebook had previously reported that about 3 percent to 4 percent of its active users were fake. According to the new figures, the accounts taken down each quarter were equivalent to 25 percent to 35 percent of its active users (though those accounts were not counted in Facebook’s active-user tallies because they had been removed).More curious was how Facebook’s estimate of active fake accounts barely budged even as the number of accounts it took down each quarter fluctuated widely. For instance, Facebook said it had caught 583 million fake accounts in the first quarter of 2018 and 800 million the next quarter. Yet between those two quarters, it told investors that its active fake accounts had increased by roughly one million. Those numbers suggest either that Facebook happens to be eliminating exactly enough accounts each quarter to keep its active fake-account estimate flat — or that its estimate is more like a guess.“You can use your judgment,” said Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research who discovered last year that Facebook was claiming it could reach more people in the United States than the Census Bureau said lived in the country. “I think there are reasons to be skeptical of the numbers they put forward.”Facebook’s figures also imply that over the past year, it has caught and taken down roughly 90 percent of fake accounts that are created on its site — most, it said, “within minutes of registration.” Facebook said it also stopped millions of fake accounts from registering each day. Mr. Schultz said such a success rate was possible because “the vast majority of accounts we take down are from extremely naïve adversaries,” who typically create automated accounts that are easy to spot. The smaller number of fake accounts that elude detection are generally manually created accounts. Mr. Schultz added that Facebook was cautious in removing manually created accounts because it didn’t want to erase authentic profiles. “We don’t want to over-enforce,” he said. “So what we actually focus on is the harmful behavior.”Yet obvious fake accounts that are engaging in harmful behavior slip through. Last year, I found dozens of fake accounts masquerading as the company’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, to scam Facebook users out of cash. Some had been up for years.Facebook also said the vast majority of fake accounts it removed were ones that it had spotted, rather than ones that users had reported. Of the 2.8 billion fake accounts it took down in the year that ended Sept. 30, Facebook said, it found 99.3 percent on its own.Those numbers also contradict my experience. Last year, I easily created 11 Facebook accounts that used the same name, occupation and profile photo as my verified account. They remained live for five days, until I reported them to Facebook. Instagram, which Facebook owns, also left up 10 impostor accounts I had created until I reported them; it took down only five, until I alerted a Facebook spokesman. If an account appears to be impersonating another user but isn’t “engaged in harmful behavior,” Facebook often leaves it up, Mr. Schultz said. He said such duplicate accounts could be from people who had lost their password or were confused. Duplicate accounts are banned under Facebook’s rules. But they persist anyway, in even greater numbers than fake accounts, according to the company’s estimates, compounding its problem of inauthentic activity.Facebook’s estimates of duplicates have also seesawed, including nearly doubling in 2017. On Wednesday, Facebook increased its count by 20 percent, to 255 million. Take a look at the chart below.Aaron Greenspan, Mr. Zuckerberg’s Harvard University classmate who now tracks Facebook, issued a report last week questioning how many authentic users Facebook has. Mr. Greenspan, who started a site called “the Face Book” while at Harvard and settled a trademark dispute with Facebook in 2009, said he believed the social network had far more fake accounts than it had disclosed, posing a grave risk to its business.“The fact there are so many unexplained differences and so many gaps, it paints a picture that, when you combine all these factors together, it would indicate there’s something going on here that they’re trying to hide,” he said.Mr. Schultz said Facebook was doing its best to police inauthentic accounts and be as transparent as possible about how many it believed were still on its site. “We disclose it very publicly, in my opinion,” he said. When I asked him how advertisers felt about paying to show ads to fake accounts, Mr. Schultz said, “What advertisers need to feel comfortable about are the actual results generated by our ad campaigns.”Jack Nicas covers technology from San Francisco. Before joining The Times, he spent seven years at The Wall Street Journal covering technology, aviation and national news.  @jacknicas • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byButtigieg detaches progressive policy from the culture war.By David BrooksOpinion ColumnistPete Buttigieg has some kind of magic right now. His campaign bio, “Shortest Way Home,” was the 25th-best-selling book on Amazon when I checked on Monday. That put him just a few dozen places behind Michelle Obama, and thousands or tens of thousands of places ahead of Kamala Harris, Bernie Sanders and the other candidates who have campaign books out now.In a recent Iowa poll he surged to third place. His campaign just announced that it’s raised an impressive $7 million since January. And I can’t tell you how many Democrats in places as diverse as Nebraska, Indiana, New York and Washington have come up to me over the last few weeks raving about the guy. I met a superfan in Frederick, Md., who says that every few hours she calls the campaign to give another $10. This is the biggest star-is-born moment since Lady Gaga started singing “Shallow.”Why are people so in love with the mayor of South Bend, Ind., who almost nobody had heard of until he did a CNN town hall on March 10?It’s important to remember that when Democrats vote next year, they’ll not only be choosing a policy alternative to Donald Trump, they’ll also be making a statement about what kind of country they want America to be.The Trump era has been all about dissolving moral norms and waging vicious attacks. This has been an era of culture war, class warfare and identity politics. It’s been an era in which call-out culture, reality TV melodrama and tribal grandstanding have overshadowed policymaking and the challenges of actually governing.The Buttigieg surge suggests that there are a lot of Democrats who want to say goodbye to all that. They don’t want to fight fire and divisiveness with more fire and divisiveness. They don’t want to fight white identity politics with another kind of identity politics.They are sick of the moral melodrama altogether. They just want a person who is more about governing than virtue-signaling, more about friendliness and basic decency than media circus and rhetorical war.Buttigieg’s secret is that he transcends many of the tensions that run through our society in a way that makes people on all sides feel comfortable.First, he is young and represents the rising generation, but he is also an older person’s idea of what a young person should be. He’d be the first millennial president, but Buttigieg doesn’t fit any of the stereotypes that have been affixed to America’s young people. Young people are supposed to be woke social justice warriors who are disgusted by their elders. Buttigieg is the model young man who made his way impressing his elders — Harvard, Rhodes scholar, McKinsey, the Navy. Young hipsters are supposed to flock to coastal places like Brooklyn and Portland; after college, Buttigieg returned to Indiana. Young people are supposed to be anti-institutional, but Buttigieg is very institutional — his life has been defined by his service to organizations, not his rebellion against them.Second, he is gay and personifies the progress made by the L.G.B.T.Q. movement, but he doesn't do so in a way that feels threatening or transgressive to social conservatives. He has conservative family values; it’s just that his spouse is a husband, not a wife. He speaks comfortably about his faith and says that when he goes to church he prefers a conservative liturgy to anything experimental.Third, he is a localist and a Washington outsider, but he carries no populist resentment and can easily speak the language of the coastal elite.Buttigieg has spent his political career in Indiana, where pols are expected to go to county fairs and eat the catfish fillet and cheesecake on a stick. He wasn’t alive when the Studebaker plant shut down in South Bend, but he has the trauma of Midwestern deindustrialization in his bones. He lives in a house near his mother where the mortgage comes to about $450 a month. On the other hand, he was friends with Mark Zuckerberg at Harvard, earned a first at Oxford and thrived as a corporate consultant.Finally, he’s a progressive on policy issues, but he doesn’t sound like an angry revolutionary. Buttigieg’s policy positions are not all that different from the more identifiable leftist candidates. But he eschews grand ideological conflict. “The whole point of politics is everyday life,” he said in his CNN town hall. His book is mostly about how as mayor he faced problems like snow removal and fixing potholes. His big achievements were renaming city streets, repairing the sewer system and tearing down derelict buildings. He says he’ll do whatever works.I’ve only met Buttigieg once, when we were seated at the same table at a dinner in Detroit a few months ago. He was smart, modest and self-effacing, and I can’t square that impression with his assumption that at 37 he’s qualified to be president of the United States. But maybe that’s Buttigieg — he squares a lot of circles. He deftly detaches progressive policy positions from the culture war. He offers change without Sturm und Drang.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Brooks has been a columnist with The Times since 2003. He is the author of “The Road to Character” and the forthcoming book, “The Second Mountain.”  @nytdavidbrooks Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Natasha SingerEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Greetings, I’m Natasha Singer, your resident privacy reporter. And I’m writing to you from wintry New York City as the government shutdown increases financial pressure on federal workers and the tech elites jet off to Davos, Switzerland, to hobnob at the World Economic Forum.For the last few years, the forum has been heralding the “Fourth Industrial Revolution.” That’s the idea that today’s digital innovations are generating entire new industries — in much the way electricity enabled the mass production of the Model T Ford in the early 20th century.But a provocative new book, “The Age of Surveillance Capitalism,” by Shoshana Zuboff, a professor emerita at the Harvard Business School, offers a more sobering counternarrative.Published on Tuesday, the book argues that digital services developed by the likes of Google and Facebook should not be viewed as the latest iteration of industrialization. Instead, Dr. Zuboff writes, they represent a new and problematic market form that trades in predicting and influencing human behavior.“Surveillance capitalism has taken human experience, specifically private human experience, and unilaterally claimed it as something to be bought and sold in the marketplace,” Dr. Zuboff told me during a visit to The Times’s office. “This new kind of marketplace trades in behavioral futures. It’s like a form of derivative. But it’s about us.”Yet most of us are not aware that platforms like Google and Facebook may track and analyze our every search, location, like, video, photo, post and punctuation mark the better to try to sway us, she said.In fact, a new study on Facebook from the Pew Research Center illustrates how opaque this behavior marketplace can be to consumers.The study, my colleague Sapna Maheswari writes, reported that about three-fourths of Facebook users were unaware that the social network maintained lists of their personal interests, such as their political leanings, for advertisers. And about half of users who looked at their “ad preferences” — the Facebook pages displaying these details — said they were uncomfortable with the company’s creating lists of categories about them.The technologies that power the behavior speculation market, of course, have spread far beyond online ads.They enable auto insurers to surveil drivers and offer discounts based on their driving performance. They allow workplace wellness programs to charge higher health insurance premiums to employees who decline to wear fitness trackers. They helped Kremlin-linked groups mount political influence campaigns on Facebook (although, as my colleague John Herrman pointed out this past week, we have yet to learn how effective those campaigns were).The flash-trading in human behavioral data was not inevitable.In her book, Dr. Zuboff describes how Google, in its early days, used the keywords that people typed in to improve its search engine even as it paid scant attention to the collateral data — like users’ keyword phrasing, click patterns and spellings — that came with it. Pretty soon, however, Google began harvesting this surplus information, along with other details like users’ web-browsing activities, to infer their interests and target them with ads.The model was later adopted by Facebook.The companies’ pivot — from serving to surveilling their users — pushed Google and Facebook to harvest more and more data, Dr. Zuboff writes. In doing so, the companies sometimes bypassed privacy settings or made it difficult for users to opt out of data-sharing.“We saw these digital services were free, and we thought, you know, ‘We’re making a reasonable trade-off with giving them valuable data,’” Dr. Zuboff told me. “But now that’s reversed. They’ve decided that we’re free, that they can take our experience for free and translate it into behavioral data. And so we are just the source of raw material.”Of course, tech companies tend to bristle at the word “surveillance.” They associate it with government spying on individuals — not with their own snooping on users and trying to sway them at scale.“When organizations do surveillance, people don’t have control over that,” Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief, said in April during a Senate hearing on Cambridge Analytica, the voter-profiling company that improperly harvested the data of millions of Facebook users. “But on Facebook, everything that you share, you have control over.”Surveillance, however, simply means observation or supervision, often with the intent of channeling the surveilled in a particular direction. As Dr. Zuboff’s book points out, that is at the core of Facebook’s panopticon of a business model.In other news:■ Microsoft pledged nearly $500 million in loans to help build affordable housing in the Seattle area. The money is “the most ambitious effort by a tech company to directly address the inequality that has spread” in its backyard, Karen Weise writes.■ Facebook is facing continued pressure to more aggressively counter the spread of divisive disinformation and user manipulation on its platform, Adam Satariano writes. The company said Thursday that it had identified two new Russian-linked misinformation campaigns. “Up to 1,200 people expressed interest in attending one of the roughly 190 events organized by those behind the fake pages,” the article notes. “Facebook couldn’t say whether any of the events had taken place.”■ Legislators must find a new way to regulate social media, Natasha Tusikov, a criminology professor, and Blayne Haggart, a political-science professor, argue in The Conversation. One suggestion, they write: “It’s time to consider noncommercial ownership of social-media entities — including nonprofit or some form of public ownership.”■ And finally, how might countries grapple with a global labor market in which there are few protections for many digital workers? Read the opinion piece in the New Statesman by Mark Graham, a professor at the Oxford Internet Institute.Natasha Singer covers data privacy and tech accountability for The New York Times. She also teaches a tech ethics course at the School of The New York Times, The Times’s pre-college program. Follow her on Twitter: @natashanyt.Interested in All Things Tech? Get the Bits newsletter delivered to your inbox weekly for the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byIf no one reads the terms and conditions, how can they continue to be the legal backbone of the internet?By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.The average person would have to spend 76 working days reading all of the digital privacy policies they agree to in the span of a year. Reading Amazon’s terms and conditions alone out loud takes approximately nine hours.Why would anyone read the terms of service when they don’t feel as though they have a choice in the first place? It’s not as though a user can call up Mark Zuckerberg and negotiate his or her own privacy policy. The “I agree” button should have long ago been renamed “Meh, whatever.” The legal fiction of consent is blatant in the privacy scandal du jour. Both Google and Facebook have been paying people — including minors as young as 13 — to download an app that tracks nearly all their phone activity and usage habits.Facebook advertised their app on services beloved by teens, like Snapchat and Instagram, seeking participants between the ages of 13 and 35. The sign-up process required minors to get parental consent. (How rigorous? Users simply had to scroll down and click on a check box.) In exchange for participating in what Facebook called a research project, each user received $20 a month, plus referral bonuses. Similarly, Google’s Screenwise Meter app harvested user information in exchange for money. Google was a little more careful than Facebook, barring minors unless they were participating as part of a larger household.It’s unlikely these children understood what they gave up by agreeing to use the app. And even if they’d received proper parental consent, their parents may not have understood what they were giving away on their child’s behalf. But it wasn’t the predatory nature of these programs that prompted Apple to disable them on iPhones and iPads. Rather, Apple objected to how Google and Facebook had used a loophole to transmit customer data without having to go through Apple first. In other words, it looks as though two tech giants and their armies of lawyers didn’t read the policy closely enough and violated Apple’s terms and conditions.People are often startled by what they wind up giving away by clicking on the “yes” button. They are shocked to find when they connect their Spotify and Netflix accounts to their Facebook account that those streaming services gain access to their Facebook messages. They are confused and outraged by Facebook’s uncanny ability to recommend “friends” that the company shouldn’t really know about — say, a social worker’s client, a sperm donor’s biological child, a woman’s father’s mistress. Data is powerful and can inform on us in unexpected ways. Companies learn all about you, but also all about your friends who haven’t signed up for these services. Consumers’ confusion about this gives rise to conspiracy theories that phone microphones are secretly snooping on users. According to academics who have done the research, that’s probably just paranoia. The likely truth is that all the other data you give away is enough to predict what you have said and will say in conversations.Countless devices and internet services now pervade daily life. We don’t need to live in a world governed by their terms and conditions, propped up by the legal fiction of consent. If empowered and properly funded, the Federal Trade Commission can become the privacy watchdog that this era so desperately needs. And the repeal or modification of the Federal Arbitration Act can defang the very worst provision that so frequently pops up in terms and conditions — the surrender of the right to sue a company in court.Legislation can mandate transparency about who has your data and can give users the right to stop it from being sold. New laws can lay down basic guarantees of privacy that won't require you to wade through hundreds of thousands of words of legalese. Europe is already leading the way with the General Data Protection Regulation. California has followed that example by passing a law with similar protections, scheduled to go into effect in 2020. Americans deserve strong privacy protections. Consent is not enough to replace them. The clicks that pass for consent are uninformed, non-negotiated and offered in exchange for services that are often necessary for civic life. It’s time to start seeing the “I agree” button for what it really is.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Christina CaronFacebook announced Thursday its first policy to combat misinformation about vaccines, following in the footsteps of Pinterest and YouTube.The social network is adopting an approach similar to the one it uses to tackle fake news: The company will not remove incorrect content, but it will aim to reduce the reach of that content by making it harder to find.“Leading global health organizations, such as the World Health Organization and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, have publicly identified verifiable vaccine hoaxes,” Monika Bickert, Facebook’s vice president for global policy management, said in a statement Thursday. “If these vaccine hoaxes appear on Facebook, we will take action against them.”Anti-vaccination groups have flourished on Facebook, partly because of the site’s search results and “suggested groups” feature.The group Stop Mandatory Vaccination, for example, has nearly 159,000 members. Larry Cook, the founder, bragged on a recently deactivated GoFundMe page about an anti-vaccine Facebook video that he said was averaging over 100,000 views per day. “This is how we reach parents!” he wrote. The video has 50,000 shares and has been viewed 2.1 million times.Under Facebook’s new policy, groups and pages that spread misinformation about vaccines will have lower rankings and won’t be included in recommendations or predictions when users are searching within Facebook, the company said.Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, will have similar policies. “We won’t show or recommend content that contains misinformation about vaccinations on Instagram Explore or hashtag pages,” Ms. Bickert said in the statement.Facebook’s new rules come amid measles outbreaks in the United States and abroad, and just days after yet another study demonstrated that the measles vaccine doesn’t cause autism. The idea that vaccines are somehow linked to autism has been widely debunked, but still persists among anti-vaccination activists.Last month, Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, wrote a letter to Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, asking what steps the company was taking to prevent anti-vaccine information from being recommended to users.Facebook said its artificial intelligence system will search for vaccine misinformation and flag posts and links — including pictures and videos that appear in closed groups — that will then be reviewed by someone at the company.If the content is found to contain false claims about vaccines, then posts from the violating groups or pages will appear lower in a user’s news feed, the company said. But members of Facebook groups that promote anti-vaccination content will still see the posts on the group’s page. The company said it is working on ways to warn new or existing group members if a group has shared vaccine misinformation.Anti-vaccine groups will become “craftier” as moderation techniques develop, said Joan Donovan, the director of the Technology and Social Change Research Project at the Shorenstein Center at the Harvard Kennedy School.Sometimes anti-vaccine propaganda appears on old, abandoned Facebook accounts, for example. On Thursday afternoon, the Facebook page Occupy Philly showed two recent posts warning about the dangers of vaccination.Anti-vaccination groups can also harness search-engine optimization “by using very specific key words, especially the prescription names of some of these vaccines,” Dr. Donovan said, adding that anti-vaccination groups will also spread out into “momversation groups,” where parents gather online.Screen shots and other images containing written messages can also help posters hide from tech-based moderation, said Dr. Donovan, who researches disinformation and media manipulation.While Facebook said its artificial intelligence system can decipher text that has been added to photos, the company said it will not be targeting every single post about vaccines, and is focusing instead on specific claims about vaccines that have been disproved.The company is also aiming to crack down on advertising that includes misinformation about vaccinations. Such ads will be rejected, Facebook said, and the company may disable ad accounts that violate its policies. It has also removed certain vaccine-related targeting options like “vaccine controversies.”“I’m really pleased that they are recognizing the downstream impact of this kind of misinformation and taking the right steps to balance expression with the recognition that their curation and their suggestions do have an impact on the communities that people join,” said Renée DiResta, the co-founder of Vaccinate California and the director of research at a cybersecurity company. “I think that the decision to stop accepting ad dollars is the right call.”The World Health Organization identified “vaccine hesitancy” as one of this year’s 10 notable threats to global health. The decision to avoid vaccination can stem from many things: worries about side effects, cost, moral or religious objections, or a lack of knowledge about immunizations.As anti-vaccine groups have infiltrated social media, companies have been pressured to stem the tide of misinformation.Last year, Pinterest blocked results associated with certain vaccine-related searches and said last month that it was working with experts to develop a more tailored long-term approach.YouTube started surfacing more authoritative content in late 2017 for people searching for vaccination-related topics, and its policies prohibit anti-vaccine videos from showing ads. In India, the company has rolled out information panels that fact-check specific claims as another way of combating misinformation, YouTube said on Thursday. The company said the fact-check panels will expand to other countries this year.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhen we tell people to get off the platform, we recast a political issue as a willpower issue. By Anand GiridharadasMr. Giridharadas is the author of “Winners Take All: The Elite Charade of Changing the World.”When news broke that Facebook users’ private messages were not necessarily private, Taunya Richards, 44, a real estate appraiser in Hillsboro, Ore., immediately panicked: Had she endangered her son? She thought back to her chats with her mother in Idaho, who prefers Facebook’s messenger to texting. Her son is a specialist in the Army; using the Facebook-owned encrypted messaging platform WhatsApp, he had kept her updated as he traveled to what she described as a dangerous foreign base whose location she was supposed to keep secret. She had then sent those location updates to her mother using Facebook Messenger. Now she wonders who has that data. “For a mother,” she told me, “especially one whose whole life has been about protect your kid from these harms, and she’s just doing what a mother does, which is responding to him telling her something that he needs her to know so he’s protected, and someone can come in and take that and just sell it to people as data? You’re putting my kid’s life in danger.”But don’t count Ms. Richards among the growing ranks of people deleting Facebook. “All it does is punish me,” she said. “It doesn’t punish Facebook. It doesn’t change anything. It cuts me off from my family.” Even if a boycott bankrupted Facebook, what’s to stop the next company from doing the same thing? “We need the laws to say, You can’t do this,” she said.Ms. Richards’s dissension from the swelling chorus of #DeleteFacebook is notable and worth considering. In refusing to delete her Facebook account, she is refusing to turn the power abuses of the tech industry into an issue of personal responsibility.The impulse to delete Facebook is understandable. In an era of political gridlock and dysfunction, it feels good to start somewhere. There is the hope that waves of deletions will send a signal to the company’s leaders and to the lawmakers who are meant to regulate it.But it would also seem to be the case that if millions of angry individuals were going to save us from the worst excesses of the tech industry, we would have been saved from them by now. Collective action is difficult against a global behemoth like Facebook. Even were such action to succeed, the company also owns WhatsApp and Instagram. With a couple of billion users on Facebook alone, it is hard to fathom how many deleted accounts it would take to drive genuine change.And it’s possible that #DeleteFacebook might actually play into Facebook’s hands, by recasting a political issue as a willpower issue. As Ms. Richards asks, thinking of her son overseas, should the burden of fixing Facebook, and data privacy in general, really fall on her? Or is telling people to delete their accounts on a platform to which there are few alternatives the digital equivalent of ordering women to smile more if they want to get ahead at the office?If I were Mark Zuckerberg, I might actually relish seeing my users agonize over the question of “to delete or not to delete.” Every moment they are talking about whether to walk away from the content they’ve created and the network they’ve built is a moment they aren’t talking about Facebook executives being brought to justice and the company brought under proper regulation.“Individual action is great, but count me as skeptical that we will collect enough of us to change the behavior of the biggest and most powerful companies in the world,” Senator Brian Schatz, Democrat of Hawaii, who is working on emerging bipartisan legislation, told me. “This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for. We need a federal law.”Or perhaps we need a few laws. One priority may be privacy legislation to ensure that Facebook’s conscience isn’t the decider of what “private” means. Another could be the rewriting of antitrust law for the digital era. But an easy, obvious place for Congress to start is this: to do right by Ms. Richards and her soldier son. No tech company’s growth lust should come at the price of our soldiers’ safety and the peace of mind of those awaiting their return.Anand Giridharadas is the author of, most recently, “Winners Take All: The Elite Charade of Changing the World.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike Isaac and Kate CongerSAN FRANCISCO — When Logan Green, chief executive of the ride-hailing service Lyft, was asked which tech leaders he admired, he pointed to three men who had built their companies ruthlessly: Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos.“A lot of other Silicon Valley companies are very scared to get their hands dirty with operations,” Mr. Green said in a 2017 interview with The New York Times, adding that he wanted to emulate the take-no-prisoners methods of Mr. Musk, Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Bezos.The problem for Mr. Green is that Lyft seems very nice. Its app is pink. Its cars were once adorned with fuzzy bubblegum-colored mustaches. Its drivers have a reputation for being friendly. And while Lyft has racked up more than one billion rides and become a strong No. 2 to Uber in the United States and Canada, it has not shaken off its cuddly image.Now Mr. Green, 35, must show that Lyft can be as assertive as an Amazon or a Facebook. He and Uber are locked in a race to take their companies public: Both filed papers in December to list on the stock market in the coming months. The offerings — the first for any ride-hailing firm — are likely to create a bonanza of riches in Silicon Valley and set the stage for listings of other highly valued tech start-ups, including Slack and Pinterest.The pressure is on Mr. Green to get the jump on Uber. (Both offerings have been stalled because the government shutdown, which ended Friday, prevented the Securities and Exchange Commission from reviewing their filings.) Lyft, which was last privately valued at $15.1 billion, is tiny compared with its rival and could be overshadowed if Uber debuts first. Uber could go public at a $120 billion valuation.For Mr. Green, this means he may have to give up some up his reserve and step into a more public role. While Lyft’s more gregarious president, John Zimmer, his No. 2 for the last 12 years, has frequently handled the public-facing side of the business, Mr. Green would rather speak at staff meetings than at tech conferences. Colleagues describe him as reserved.In a 2017 interview, Mr. Zimmer said Mr. Green was often misunderstood because of his quiet demeanor. “He is, like, extremely competitive,” Mr. Zimmer, now 34, said. “He has been an activist.”Lyft declined to make Mr. Green or Mr. Zimmer available for new interviews, citing the quiet period before an initial public offering. In a statement, the chief operating officer, Jon McNeill, described them as “cutthroat missionaries in service of creating positive change.”One of the tech leaders Mr. Green cited as inspiration, Mr. Musk, recommended against taking Lyft public.“The current system makes long-term value creation and product innovation difficult,” Mr. Musk, chief executive of Tesla, wrote in an email last week. “It insists on quarter-by-quarter results or punishes companies severely. This is particularly bad for companies that are high growth and are valued on potential, like Lyft (or Tesla).” (The S.E.C. fined Mr. Musk  last year for a tweet about taking Tesla private.)Mr. Green, who was born and raised in Culver City, Calif., graduated from the University of California, Santa Barbara, in 2006 with a degree in business economics. He then worked as the university’s sustainability coordinator, poring over alternatives to the gas-guzzling one-car-per-owner model. He was also on the board of the Santa Barbara Metropolitan Transit District, a position that gave him insight into municipal transportation.While visiting Zimbabwe on vacation during his 20s, Mr. Green said in the 2017 interview, he was inspired by Zimbabweans who had created makeshift services to fill every seat in car pools, saving passengers money and taking cars off the road.So in 2007, Mr. Green started Zimride in Santa Barbara, Calif., to provide long-distance car-pool rides to college students by matching them with other students who were driving.Mr. Zimmer, then working at Lehman Brothers, noticed posts about the start-up on Facebook from John Siegel, whom he had met while studying abroad and who had attended middle school with Mr. Green.“John didn’t have this technical or programming background, but he was this really impressive guy,” Mr. Siegel said. “I thought they could work together well.”Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer, who remained in New York, embarked on what Mr. Zimmer called a “long-distance relationship,” working together over Skype. In 2008, they moved to a two-bedroom apartment in Palo Alto, Calif. Neither drew a salary in the first three years of building Zimride, and each contract they sold to a college was celebrated with a trip to Ikea for Swedish meatballs, Mr. Zimmer said.In 2011, Zimride raised $6 million. But as a web service, it was caught flat-footed by the rise of smartphones and mobile apps. In 2012, Mr. Green decided to spin out of Zimride a mobile, peer-to-peer ride-hailing service, calling it Lyft.Instead of just pairing students for long-distance rides, Lyft would put drivers together with riders on public streets, in real time. Mr. Zimmer came up with the idea to emblazon the cars with pink mustaches; Mr. Green encouraged passengers to greet their drivers with a fist bump, to keep the community feeling of Zimride.At the time, ride-hailing wasn’t legal, and only licensed drivers could pick up passengers on public streets. Ann Miura-Ko, a partner at the venture capital firm Floodgate, who had invested in Zimride and sits on Lyft’s board, recalled that some board members had been doubtful about the change — but that Mr. Green had been confident.“Someone asked, ‘Will this really work?’ And he wasn’t just sure, he was positive,” she said.But Mr. Green didn’t reckon with one issue: Uber. At the time, Uber, run by Travis Kalanick, had positioned itself as a luxury service for the wealthy that used only licensed drivers, unlike Lyft’s lower-cost service. In 2013, Uber published a white paper outlining the risks of peer-to-peer ride-hailing, a way to elbow Lyft out of the market.“They were trying to get the whole category shut down behind the scenes,” Mr. Green said. “They didn’t want competition.”Uber officials met with California regulators about the matter. As for Mr. Green, several current and former regulators and lawmakers who oversee ride-sharing in California said they had never worked with him, because Mr. Zimmer was often the one who communicated with officials.“Truth be told, I’ve never heard of him,” said Aaron Peskin, a San Francisco supervisor who called for crackdowns on Uber and Lyft in their early years and negotiated a new per-ride tax with Uber and Lyft last summer.Mr. Kalanick eventually moved Uber into non-luxury ride-sharing with no licensed drivers, the same as Lyft. He and Mr. Green quickly became bitter rivals. When Mr. Green was set to introduce Lyft’s car-pooling product in 2014, Uber announced the same service first.That same year, Uber considered buying Lyft. Over dinner at Mr. Kalanick’s home in San Francisco, the Uber chief laughed at Mr. Zimmer’s high asking price. No deal was struck.An Uber spokesman declined to comment. A spokesman for Mr. Kalanick didn’t return a request for comment.While Mr. Kalanick went on to raise billions of dollars in funding for Uber, Mr. Green relied on Mr. Zimmer’s Wall Street knowledge and showman personality to garner investments from venture capitalists and others. In total, Lyft has raised close to $5.1 billion, compared with Uber’s roughly $14 billion in equity.In 2017, Mr. Kalanick was ousted from Uber after a series of scandals. Mr. Green seized the moment, billing Lyft as a kinder, gentler network. Ridership surged, with Lyft taking a share of up to 35 percent in some American cities.More recently, Lyft has ventured into self-driving cars, offering autonomous rides in Las Vegas. It also acquired Motivate, the largest bike-share operator in the United States, giving Lyft a dominant position in an emerging transportation market.In the 2017 interview, Mr. Green said he was far from done.“As an entrepreneur, you always kind of want what you’re pitching to sound somewhat off the wall,” he said. “You’re trying to pitch the future that doesn’t exist, and you want it to be — it needs to be — a little bit of a stretch.”Follow Mike Isaac and Kate Conger on Twitter: @mikeisaac and @kateconger.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBig CityBy Ginia Bellafante[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]This week, the City of New York, through its Commission on Human Rights, officially banned discrimination based on hairstyle, making it one of the rare municipalities in the country to codify the link between prejudice and personal presentation. What this means, essentially, is that employers, landlords, school principals, gym owners, club managers and other institutions and gatekeepers who engage in a persistent form of racism that renders certain judgments of how African-Americans wear their hair, will now be subject to penalties and civil damages should they harass, threaten, fire or deny admission or affiliation to anyone based on a particular set of grooming choices.While it may defy belief that such a clarification would be needed in such a progressive part of the world at the close of the second decade of the 21st century, examples of bias expressed through rules or policies against cornrows, Afros, Bantu knots and other means of wearing hair that do not conform to European standards, in fact, abound.Curly hair, coiled hair, black hair is a trigger, it seems, that reveals the bigotry of people who don’t understand themselves as bigoted, people who just imagine themselves as upholding “standards.”Two years ago, for instance, a young black woman working at a Banana Republic in Westchester County was told by a white male manager that her braids were not “Banana Republic appropriate,” that they were too “unkempt” and “urban” and that he would not be able to schedule her for more shifts unless she took them out. When she told the manager that they protected her hair from becoming coarse in cold weather, he suggested she try some shea butter. Ultimately, he was let go.More recently, state officials in New Jersey opened a civil rights investigation into the case of a black high school wrestler who was told by a referee that his locs violated competition rules. The wrestler, Andrew Johnson, resigned to getting his hair cut right before a match he would have otherwise been made to forfeit.Along with the commission’s announcement on new enforcement guidelines, it said that in the span of just the past few months it had received many complaints of discrimination based on hairstyle. It is currently investigating seven cases, one involving someone who was fired from her job simply for wearing her natural hair down.While this sort of discrimination is common in the retail sector, it is hardly exclusive to the sales floor. Recently, I spoke with Marissa Jackson, a deputy at the Commission on Human Rights, about her own experiences encountering disapproval of the way she put herself together during a past professional life.Several years ago she worked as a summer associate at a prominent Wall Street law firm and routinely straightened her hair. “I went through a period of my life of wanting to fit in and straighten it,” she told me. After she graduated from Columbia Law School and studied at the London School of Economics, she came back to the firm with less of a compulsion to conform and decided to get locs.This was hardly welcome. One partner would never talk to her or make eye contact. “There was this idea that I had tricked people and would be jeopardizing my career,” she told me. “‘Oh, what are you doing? You should have straight hair!’ My white colleagues didn’t say this to me. It was my black colleagues who had internalized these racist ideas and were afraid of what this assertion of identity would mean.” She left the firm and went to work for a black judge.The insidious irony here is that prestigious law firms and big corporations have made efforts to relax the workplace for decades. This usually played out in selective ways for a select group of people. Casual Fridays, which gained popularity in the 1990s, were the vehicle by which middle-age white men could more comfortably be themselves, accommodating expanding waistlines in pleated khakis and fleece vests. These were baby boomers, rebellious in their own minds, who were liberated from the suits that did not speak to who they believed they really were.The rise of Silicon Valley start-up culture gave white men — young white men in particular — even further license to express their authentic identities. When he began his career, Mark Zuckerberg could walk into any boardroom in the country wearing a hoodie, the style signature of fetal billionaires.But how would a young black man be perceived, even today, in the same situation, styled in similar adolescent fashion and with hair that made him look like Questlove? Young black men are told to pull up their pants and look responsible if they want to earn a decent living; young white men have learned that they can rule the world looking like 15-year-olds who have been gaming for the past 36 hours.The casual workplace is, in the end, just another manifestation of white privilege. In 1992, the city of Santa Cruz, Calif., with a population that was 79 percent white, passed an ordinance that made discrimination against appearance unlawful. Santa Cruz was the city of surfers and skateboarders and hackers in tattoos and piercings. Someone thought to protect them a very long time ago.Email bigcity@nytimes.com. Follow Ginia Bellafante on Twitter: @GiniaNYTAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byFixesTechnology engineers have long served big profitable businesses well, while apps focusing on what more altruistic organizations need remained sparse. But that’s changing.By Tina RosenbergMs. Rosenberg is a co-founder of the Solutions Journalism Network, which supports rigorous reporting about responses to social problems.Second of two articlesThere really isn’t an app for everything. At least not for everyone. Avi Karnani first noticed that tech gap when he was just out of business school, working on mergers and acquisitions for Citigroup Global Markets. “At my corporation there was all this great financial tech available to help them manage their risk and achieve anything they wanted,” he said. “But my friends had high-interest credit cards, and high-fee checking accounts and their student loans were incomprehensible. They were calling me up for help, and they didn’t have access to anything like that.”If you run a business, or you’re a consumer of means, there’s a technology solution for every problem you could imagine, and many you probably can’t. But if you’re in financial trouble, or have problems typical of low-income people, sorry. It’s an analog world for you.Still, there are some successes. Last week, I wrote about Propel’s Fresh EBT app, which helps people manage their Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits. Mr. Karnani is the chief executive and co-founder of Alice, a company that automates pretax benefits to enable companies to offer them and let more employees use them. Those benefits can add hundreds or thousands of dollars to a worker’s paycheck. But while white-collar employees can usually get them, most hourly workers can’t.Good Call links people arrested in New York City to a lawyer — within seconds. JustFix.nyc helps New York City tenants respond to eviction notices, compel landlords to make repairs, and represent themselves in housing court.Those four companies got their start at a tech incubator called Blue Ridge Labs, which is part of Robin Hood, a New York City antipoverty organization. It’s the most productive (and possibly the only) early stage incubator for tech companies trying to solve a social problem.Profit-focused tech companies have lots of tech start-up havens where they can get capital, mentorship, colleagues and a chance to show their products; Y Combinator is the best-known.For beginning start-ups seeking social impact, the most prominent organization has been Blue Ridge. Companies in a slightly more advanced stage can apply to Fast Forward in the Bay Area of California, and JPMorgan Chase’s Financial Solutions Lab has fellowships for work on financial apps. Some companies win fellowships at more than one lab.In addition, some other big organizations are now making apps. Code for America makes Clear My Record, which automates legal expungements, and GetCalFresh, which signs people up for California’s S.N.A.P. food assistance program. The International Rescue Committee runs the Airbel Center, which makes technology to help refugees. (Y Combinator accepts a few social impact-focused tech companies each year.)For profit-focused tech companies, accelerators are very helpful. But for social tech, they’re a necessity. This technology is generally more complex to create, and much more difficult to finance.Most low-income people don’t have a computer. So apps need to work on a phone. They should be easy to use for people with little financial sophistication. And they need to work with skimpy data plans. “Text messaging is great,” Mr. Karnani said.When a business contracts with Alice, its employees link their credit and debit cards to Alice’s software. It automatically identifies eligible purchases — health care, child care, commuting expenses — and moves the expense to the pretax category. On payday, Alice texts the employee that the tax she would have paid has been added to her paycheck. “The phone is going to ding and you see that money,” Mr. Karnani said. “You bought a Metro card; here’s fifty bucks.”That’s important, he said. Many poor people have had bad experiences with traditional power structures, such as banks, and don’t trust them. “They’re not going to do it unless they see someone else they know and trust doing it without becoming a victim,” he said. “So it’s great if someone can show their phone message to a friend. The friend says, ‘Hey, I bought a Metro card and I didn’t get fifty bucks. I want my fifty bucks.’”Those are small challenges for app makers. Here’s a very big one: Your audience has very limited ability to pay. So how will you make money?Financial apps can often figure out a business model; Alice, for example, takes half of the amount of money it saves employers on payroll taxes. But tech companies like JustFix and Good Call are nonprofits that must raise money from philanthropy. “It was an uphill battle for us initially, as traditional philanthropic sources of capital are not used to funding technology,” said Georges Clement, co-founder and president of JustFix. Fund-raising is a constant preoccupation for both companies.Most venture capitalists won’t look at investing in tech firms that have no chance to bring big returns — 30 times the value of their investment, or more. To choose those companies, they usually look to what’s worked in the past. “Being different is not something venture capitalists are excited by,” Mr. Clement said.The venture capitalist Ben Horowitz of Andreessen Horowitz famously said that companies that succeed are founded by “college dropouts with insane ideas going after tiny markets with no way to monetize.” (Just to be clear, “college dropouts” in this case means the likes of Mark Zuckerberg and Steve Jobs.)Looking for what has worked in the past is called pattern-matching. It’s an obvious strategy, but it’s really harmful. “Firms are starting to understand that the historical data is incredibly biased, and pattern-matching just ends up confirming those biases moving forward,” Mr. Clement said.Investors apply pattern-matching to people and products, both of which hurt socially focused tech. “It’s people who don’t look like their mental images of founders, and markets that don’t look like what people think are markets,” said Hannah Calhoon, managing director of Blue Ridge.“Our biggest challenge has been getting folks to understand why this is so important,” said Gabriel Leader-Rose, co-executive director of Good Call.The other co-executive director, Jelani Anglin, is unusual in the tech world. He’s from Far Rockaway, Queens — “median income, $38,000 per year,” he said — and his background is in community organizing. “Understanding what our community truly needs has been hard for me to portray,” he said. It has been especially difficult to explain to potential investors a feature of Good Call that allows people to list contact information for their friends and family members, so that Good Call can notify them in case of an arrest. (The police take your phone when you’re arrested. Got those numbers in your head? Me neither.) “Walking to the store, you can be snatched up. That’s a real thing,” Mr. Anglin said, but it’s hard for outsiders to understand.No venture capital? Then founders have to bring their own money. Few can. “Hey, why don’t you leave your job at Google and pay yourself $40,000 a year for something that might fail?” said Ms. Calhoon. “That’s a really different conversation for many people than for someone like Mark Zuckerberg.”This matters because people tend to build products for themselves. They fill a need they know, in a world they know. Mr. Anglin cares about making the criminal justice system fairer. Many tech founders might not even have been aware of its inequities.Tech accelerators can help by providing money, talented peers and mentoring when the market will not. But perhaps the most important thing Blue Ridge provides is something completely different: connections to the community.Tech is a macho world. The tech hero disrupts existing systems. He goes it alone. That can work with certain commercial tech projects. A bring-me-booze-right-now app that puts together buyers and sellers can be created largely through technology.But social tech is different. It doesn’t replace existing systems. Instead, it makes them work better. “You can’t move fast and break things,” said Bill Cromie, director of tech innovation at Blue Ridge. “If you are trying to make a difference in serious systemic challenges facing low-income populations, you can’t operate in a vacuum.”Mr. Clement said that JustFix’s partnerships with community organizations with a long history of helping tenants are “the thing that has been most important in our organization’s success.” “It really does take a village,” Ms. Calhoon said. “You are working with others with the exact same goal. Disrupting is disruptive not only to the ecosystem, but to your own ability to achieve your aim.”Blue Ridge requires companies to include a subject matter expert — one of Mr. Anglin’s jobs for Good Call. It also ensures that companies talk to community members all the time. It has a Design Insight Group, made up of people in the target audience paid to meet with companies and talk about their lives. And companies go into the community to watch and listen. “We don’t design with the community in mind,” Mr. Anglin said. “We design with the community.”The founders of JustFix (one of whom was active in a tenant’s organization) spent weeks talking to tenants, their advocates, Legal Aid lawyers and housing court judges. “It was without a doubt the most valuable thing that Blue Ridge does,” Mr. Clement said.The group came in focused on helping tenants, and the process showed them how. “Our biggest insight came from observing housing court proceedings,” he said. “We were sitting in the back for days and days, watching as countless tenants came in and didn’t have legal representation — and the landlord did. The tenants would come in with a plastic grocery bag filled with different documents. The judge would ask them to describe needed repairs, and they’d take their phones and start swiping through photos. The judge would say: ‘We can’t enter this information as evidence, because we’d have to keep your phone.’”The need to listen to the audience doesn’t go away. Malik Reeves, who is the community engagement coordinator for Good Call, was a user of the hotline; “I got a lawyer within 39 seconds,” he said. He and his interns spend their time in the community. “The proximity thing is important,” he said. “The ground team is so important,” Mr. Anglin said. “Sometimes tech is guilty of being analytically smart, but socially inept.”Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book “The Haunted Land: Facing Europe’s Ghosts After Communism.” She is a former editorial writer for The Times and the author, most recently, of “Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World” and the World War II spy story e-book “D for Deception.”To receive email alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering the shake-up at the Department of Homeland Security, the Israeli elections on Tuesday and the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball championship.Kirstjen Nielsen stepped down on Sunday after a rocky tenure in which she supported President Trump’s hard-line immigration policies even as he blamed her for the increased number of migrants illegally entering the U.S. (Read her resignation letter.)After assuming the post in late 2017, Ms. Nielsen led the department during the administration’s “zero tolerance” policy along the Mexican border, which initially resulted in the separation of thousands of migrant children from their families.What’s next: Mr. Trump named Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, as acting secretary. In announcing a recent spike in the number of illegal border crossings, Mr. McAleenan said last month, “This is clearly both a border security and a humanitarian crisis.”Catch up: On Friday, Mr. Trump withdrew his nominee to run Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Ronald Vitiello, saying he wanted the agency to go in a “tougher” direction.Fighting for survival before parliamentary elections, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu unexpectedly promised over the weekend to begin extending sovereignty over the West Bank if he is re-elected.The West Bank is home to 2.6 million Palestinians, who view the area as the possible site of a future Palestinian state.Mr. Netanyahu’s major rival, the former army chief Benny Gantz, and analysts dismissed the plan as a last-ditch effort to rally Mr. Netanyahu’s right-wing base.Explainer: Mr. Netanyahu is one of Israel’s longest-serving leaders, but he is facing his strongest challenge in years from Mr. Gantz and the leaders of a centrist alliance. Here’s a guide to Tuesday’s voting. Antibiotics, which have been credited with saving tens of millions of lives, have never been more accessible to the poor, thanks largely to the mass production of generics in China and India. Across much of the developing world, a few dollars will buy drugs like amoxicillin, which treats a broad range of infections.But the increasingly available drugs are losing their ability to kill the germs they were designed to cure. Poverty is a huge and largely unappreciated driver of antibiotic resistance, which is often viewed as a problem in rich countries.“We are quickly running out of treatment options,” a researcher in Kenya said. “If we don’t get a handle on the problem, I fear for the future.”Another angle: A fungus called Candida auris preys on people with weakened immune systems, and it is quietly spreading across the globe. It adds a frightening new dimension to the threat posed by the overuse of antibiotics.Jake Orta lives three blocks from Mark Zuckerberg’s $10 million home in San Francisco. A military veteran who now lives in government-subsidized housing, Mr. Orta is part of an underground economy, scavenging through others’ trash.Mr. Orta sells what he retrieves around town and says his goal is to earn around $30 to $40 a day.Our reporter, who followed Mr. Orta through the alleys of San Francisco, offers a snapshot of the extremes of American capitalism.Quotable: “You’ve got more and more tech people here and this city is moving faster and faster,” said a spokesman for a contractor that collects San Francisco’s garbage. “These people have short attention spans. Some discard items that ought to be repurposed.”On a monthlong trip in Honduras, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and a photographer explored the rampant corruption and gang violence that is leading thousands of women to seek asylum in the U.S. Our Opinion section published their collaboration.The country is one of the world’s deadliest for women, and the city above, Choloma, is one of the most dangerous. Domestic violence is common, and many women are killed by drug cartels and gangs, often in ways intended to spread terror. Battle in Libya: The U.S. military evacuated its small contingent of troops from the Libyan capital, Tripoli, as rival militias fought to stop an aspiring strongman from taking control of the city.Internet regulation: Britain has proposed sweeping government powers to fight the online spread of violent and extremist content, false information, and harmful material aimed at children. The plan announced today would be one of the most aggressive to rein in corrosive online content.Democrats and the death penalty: After California’s governor issued a moratorium on executions, Democratic presidential candidates have embraced abolition. It represents a generational shift for the party but follows a decades-long trend in declining public support for capital punishment.Snapshot: Above, Baylor won its third N.C.A.A. women’s basketball championship on Sunday, defeating Notre Dame, 82-81. Texas Tech and Virginia play for the men’s title tonight.Theater review: A revival of the 1943 musical “Oklahoma!” opened at the Circle in the Square Theater in Manhattan on Sunday. Our critic calls it “the coolest new show on Broadway.”What we’re reading: This first-person piece in The Cut. John Schwartz, a climate reporter, recommends it. “Lizzie O’Leary, one of my journalism heroes, recently resurfaced this 2017 essay about the sexual harassment she’s experienced,” he says. “I’m thinking maybe I should read it at least once a year, and maybe you should, too.”Cook: This easy pie uses crumbled gingerbread-like speculoos cookies in its crust, and a cookie butter spread on top.Listen: Khalid broke out in 2017 with “American Teen.” On his second full album, he suspends his demons in melodies and rhythms that take cues from R&B’s past.Watch: Did you watch the “Killing Eve” Season 2 premiere? Check out some of the creators’ influences, including a YouTube video, a podcast and a viral ad.Read:  Here’s what to read and watch about Kurt Cobain, the Nirvana frontman and grunge icon who killed himself 25 years ago.Smarter Living: Smartphones tend to occupy hours, but there are ways to give your fingers a break, such as setting up text abbreviations to eliminate repetitive typing. Voice assistants have also become more reliable. Set your alarm by saying, “Wake me at 7:30 a.m.” or say, “Do not disturb” as you enter a movie theater or a meeting.We also have advice about how to deal with jerks, without being one.Latin American ministers are descending today on Quito, Ecuador’s capital, to discuss Venezuela’s migration crisis.The choice of location raises a question: When problems erupt in the region, is there a dominant city where they’re hammered out?Not exactly.The city with the largest population is Mexico City. The regional finance capital is Panama City. Brasília is the capital of Brazil, which has the continent’s biggest economy. Latin America’s exiles — from Cubans to the Venezuelans themselves — head north to Miami, where Spanish is often more common than English.A peace agreement with Colombia’s rebels was hammered out in Havana, which has longstanding ties to both the rebels and the Colombian government.While other parts of the world have centers of gravity — think of Beijing, Brussels and Washington — Latin America is still searching for its own.Oh, what a beautiful mornin’. Hope everything goes your way.See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Nicholas Casey, the Andes bureau chief for The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Russia’s campaign of state-sponsored assassinations.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Something raised during a toast (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Privacy Project is a new, limited-run newsletter from The Times, exploring what’s at stake as technology blurs the lines between public and private. Sign up here. Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this briefing referred incorrectly to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. He is the country’s head of government but not its head of state; that’s President Reuven Rivlin.Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday morning. Welcome to the first working day of the new year. Want this by email? Sign up here.Last year was an unexpectedly bad year for the stock market. But Wall Street’s top stock pickers are expecting gains in 2019. Still, there is plenty that could go wrong and upend those forecasts, the NYT’s Peter Eavis and Guilbert Gates write.Here’s a look:Borrowing costs: The Fed increased its target rate four times in 2018, and fears that the central bank would raise interest rates too much and send a chill through the American economy weighed heavily on stocks in 2018. If investors don’t see signs that the economy is growing steadily, they could hang on the Fed’s every move, and monetary policy meeting, this year.President Trump: Investors were mostly tolerant in early 2108 of Mr. Trump’s unpredictable declarations on Twitter. But as the trade war with China escalated, his proclamations began to make investors jumpy. And it wasn’t just the tweets about China: The president also roiled the markets with criticism of the Fed. Mr. Trump is now the top concern that keeps investors up at night.Global growth: Large overseas economies — China, Japan and the European Union — appear to be taking a turn for the worse. Growth may accelerate if trade agreements are forged in 2019. But the problems could run deeper. China’s methods for pulling itself out of an economic rut  are probably not as effective as they once were, and Europe could be hit hard if Britain crashes out of the European Union.Tech stocks: Companies like Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Netflix helped push the S&P 500 and Nasdaq to records. But when some those companies dipped, they dragged the indexes down with them. The market’s fate depends in large part on whether investors fall back in love with large technology companies.What has to go right? The U.S. economy needs to grow strongly, the Fed needs to tread a delicate middle ground, the trade war needs to wind down, and the economies of Europe and China need to stabilize.More on markets: Retail investors are trying to hold on despite the intense volatility. As the great unwind continues, markets are at increased risk of experiencing “doom loops.” Analysts have been trimming their earnings forecasts since September, and investors are worried the outlook for companies will deteriorate further.New data showing weakening factory activity in China is amplifying concerns about the health of the global economy and driving down stocks across Asia.• The Caixin/Markit manufacturing purchasing managers index for China sank last month to 49.7, falling below the 50 mark that represents contraction for the first time since May 2017. The slide, reported today, followed similarly gloomy results on Monday from the Chinese government. The sense of impending malaise spread elsewhere in Asia, with production activity in Malaysia and Taiwan shrinking to its slowest pace in years.• The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong responded by falling nearly 2.8 percent on the first trading day of 2019. The Shanghai composite index slipped 1.15 percent. In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 was down 1.6 percent. S&P futures also took a hit.• Stocks have been shaky as investors fret about trade tensions between China and the U.S., the Fed’s position on interest rates, and intensifying predictions of waning economic growth around the world.• Employees at Baidu received a letter today from Robin Li, the chief executive of the Chinese technology company, warning that “winter is coming.” In the note, reported by the South China Morning Post, Mr. Li wrote that economic restructuring was “as cold and real as winter to every company.”____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________With talks between China and the United States set to begin this week in Beijing, Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, faces the assignment of a lifetime: redefining the trade relationship between the world’s two largest economies by March 2.But first, writes Glenn Thrush in the NYT, “Mr. Lighthizer will need to keep a mercurial president from wavering in the face of queasy financial markets, which have suffered their steepest annual decline since 2008. Despite his declaration that trade wars are ‘easy to win’ and his recent boast that he is a ‘Tariff Man,’ Mr. Trump is increasingly eager to reach a deal that will help calm the markets, which he views as a political electrocardiogram of his presidency.”After 40 years of dealing with China and watching its government dangle promises that do not materialize, Mr. Lighthizer remains deeply skeptical of Beijing and has warned Mr. Trump that the United States may need to exert more pressure through additional tariffs to win true concessions.Silicon Valley was embattled in 2018. With lawmakers saying Big Tech has too much power and regulation looming, it might seem like a good time for companies like Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook to lie low. That is not the path they are taking, writes the NYT’s David Streitfeld. In fact, Big Tech’s dizzying expansion is barely getting started.Tech companies are competing to own the cloud and become, in essence, the internet’s landlord. Google made a deal in 2017 to reimagine a chunk of waterfront Toronto from the ground up. Amazon is adding warehouses in rural areas to provide urban dwellers with everything they need to stay home. For those who venture out, driverless cars will be operated by Big Tech. And the companies are plunging further into artificial intelligence.To accomplish all this, Big Tech needs hundreds of thousands of new employees. Google is bulking up in New York and Amazon is planning satellite offices in New York and Washington. Even in Silicon Valley, the boom is accelerating. Last spring Facebook leased one million square feet in Sunnyvale, Calif., for its fast-growing community operations team.More on tech: Mark Zuckerberg admits in a New Year’s post that he is facing an uphill battle to fix Facebook. And 2019 is tech’s chance to make it right.The Commerce Department is mulling export restrictions on artificial intelligence, citing the technology’s importance to national security. But Silicon Valley insiders say the potential rules could short-circuit U.S. competitiveness in an industry built largely by Americans, reports the NYT’s Cade Metz.The news: In November, the U.S. government included computer vision, speech recognition and other artificial intelligence categories on a list of “emerging and foundational technologies” being considered for export restrictions. The rules could limit or block exports to countries such as China, whose tactics toward American technology have been criticized by the Trump administration as bullying or illegal.Why it matters: Tech experts are nervous that restrictions could stifle American innovation in the field while increasing development of A.I. technology abroad, especially in Asia. The public comment period closes on Jan. 10.Spencer Neumann is expected to join Netflix as its chief financial officer early in 2019, according to Reuters and the WSJ. He was put on paid leave by Activision Blizzard, where he held the same role, and will be fired, though the video game company did not give a reason.The long-planned ascent of Chung Euisun to the top of Hyundai Motor Group continues with a New Year’s speech he delivered to employees today in place of Chung Mong-Koo, his father and the current chairman of the Korean automotive conglomerate. (FT)Deals• Over the last few years, Blackstone, Carlyle, CVC and other private equity firms have started funds that can own companies for 15 years or longer. (WSJ)• Martin Bandier, the chief executive of Sony/ATV, the world’s largest music publisher, says the music industry is ripe for consolidation. (FT)• The Chinese gold miner Zijin Mining Group plans to sell new shares worth up to 8 billion yuan, or $1.16 billion, in Shanghai to help finance its purchase of Nevsun Resources of Canada. (Reuters)Politics and Policy• The U.S. will get its first taste of divided government under President Trump, as Democrats take a majority the House. The question is, who will control the agenda? (NYT)• How Joe Biden has paved the way for a possible presidential run in 2020. (NYT)• Democratic lawmakers plan to push ahead this year with an infrastructure package, an issue that both parties might support. (FT)Tech• A new cybersecurity law in Vietnam puts stringent controls on technology companies operating inside the country and censors what its citizens read online. (NPR)• Fortnite was very good to Tyler Blevins in 2018. Mr. Blevins, a 27-year-old professional video gamer known as Ninja, said his 94,958 Fortnite kills had helped him earn close to $10 million last year. (CNN)• Didi Chuxing, the Chinese ride-sharing start-up, has begun offering a suite of financial products, including crowdfunding and lending, as it continues to diversify outside of its core business. (Reuters)• Erik Prince, who founded the security company Blackwater, is starting a fund that will raise up to $500 million to invest in metals used for electric-vehicle batteries. (FT)Best of the Rest• Four cases in December show why insider trading will remain a focus for federal prosecutors and regulators. (NYT)• Allergan raised prices on more than two dozen pharmaceutical products by nearly 10 percent, as drugmakers increased prices on hundreds of medicines in the U.S. this week. (WSJ)• Denmark’s government is looking to strengthen the Financial Supervisory Authority, its financial regulator, following concerns about its handling of the Danske Bank money laundering scandal. (FT)• Hedge-fund managers like David Einhorn, whose Greenlight Capital closed out 2018 with its biggest-ever annual loss, are struggling to prove that they can beat the market and are worth their high fees. For many, this will be a make-or-break year. (WSJ)• Major perks for customers like air miles and cash back were meant to lead to higher returns for retail banks. But consumers figured out how to game the system. Now banks are seeking ways to keep customers happy while cutting extras. (WSJ)• Netflix removed an episode of a show featuring the comedian Hasan Minhaj that focused on Saudi Arabia’s role in the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The internet streaming service, which took down the content after receiving a complaint from the kingdom, now faces concerns about freedom of expression online. (FT)• Cash begone: The value of Chinese mobile payments more than doubled to $17 trillion in 2017, even as China’s central bank penalizes merchants who do not accept bills and coins. (FT)• American companies raised prices in 2016 to bolster their profits, but in doing so also transferred three percentage points of national income to wealthy families from lower-income households, according to new research. (WaPo)• Showtime’s fictional series “Black Monday,” premiering on Jan. 20, features a group of traders who ride the surging stock market in the 1980s and then suffer its 1987 crash. To present-day Wall Street, it feels familiar and possibly prophetic. (WaPo)• Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg, Jack Ma: Which billionaires won in 2018, and which lost? (Bloomberg)• Chesapeake Energy shifted its focus to oil from natural gas just in time for oil prices to tumble 40 percent since October. One board member feels “snakebitten.” (WSJ)• Bitcoin slumped about 70 percent in 2018, erasing $160 billion of digital wealth in a move that demonstrated the instability of the cryptocurrency market. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byTech FixHere’s a comprehensive comparison of the two services to help you choose your go-to app for hitching rides.By Brian X. ChenLead consumer technology writerUber and Lyft recently made clear that they are in the ride-hailing business for the long haul. Shortly after Lyft went public with plenty of fanfare last month, Uber shared its plans for its own initial public offering.So now feels like the right time to ask: Is one of the apps definitively superior for hitching rides? While both services look identical, there are major differences. Uber is richer in features and available in more cities. Yet Lyft is more transparent in its receipts about the details of a trip, which can help consumers understand when prices increase; Uber’s opaque receipts could leave people perplexed.I have used Uber and Lyft to hitch hundreds of rides over the last seven years. To take a closer look, I made them my only mode of transportation for the last week, using the apps to get around town while comparing their features, rewards programs, pricing structures, reputations and availability. In the end, I concluded that Uber had an edge, though the best app for you will depend largely on where you live and how often you need rides. Here’s a rundown of how the apps compare.Uber and Lyft are, for the most part, neck and neck in terms of their core features. To summon a car, you tap the app on your smartphone and enter a destination and pickup location. Then you choose the type of car you want: economy, luxury or larger vehicles with more seats like S.U.V.s. To streamline requests, both apps let you save frequently used locations, like your home or office. They both also let you add multiple drop-off points if you are sharing a car with a couple of friends. And to lower costs, both apps let you hail a car to share with a stranger who is going somewhere along your route: Uber calls its feature UberPool, and Lyft calls it a Shared ride. When a trip is complete, payment happens through the app, and you get an emailed receipt documenting the route.But that’s where the similarities end. Here are the notable differences: Uber includes a button to let you split the cost of the fare with multiple riders, which is handy when you’re out with a group. Lyft discontinued its fare-splitting feature last year and said it planned to release an improved version this year. In addition to UberPool, Uber includes a car-sharing feature called Express Pool, where you agree to walk a short distance from your actual location, like to a street corner, and be dropped off somewhere close to your destination. In other words, you save money by walking a bit to make the route more efficient for the driver. Lyft is currently testing a similar feature in three cities. (This isn’t a game-changing feature: In my tests, Uber’s Express Pool option was not available in many locations.) Most important, Uber lets people request wheelchair-accessible cars in about 15 of its top cities. In my tests in San Francisco, wheelchair-accessible cars were available in many areas. Lyft, which declined to comment for this column, has a very limited wheelchair-accessibility program; I wasn’t able to summon one here. The verdict: In terms of ride-summoning features, Uber wins hands down. Its broader wheelchair-accessibility feature is similar to the option offered by traditional taxicabs. And Lyft’s lack of fare splitting makes Uber the app of choice for group outings. Fundamentally, Uber and Lyft charge roughly the same rates: Riders pay a fare based on the duration and distance of a ride. It’s when the companies raise prices that things get more confusing.When not enough cars are available in an area with high demand, both companies use a system known as dynamic pricing, which scales up costs in accordance with supply and demand. So if you’re outside a popular museum and dozens of others are trying to summon cars, Uber and Lyft will raise prices to nudge additional drivers to come to the area. Uber calls its practice surge pricing, and Lyft’s version is labeled Prime Time. In the past, when Uber fares “surged,” the app showed a multiplier — for example, 3X, meaning the fare was triple the normal cost. When prices surge now, Uber does not show a multiplier and instead quotes only the higher price up front. Lyft marks up its Prime Time pricing with a percentage: If the rate is 50 percent, a fare that would normally be $10 costs $15.The verdict: Lyft wins, in part for greater transparency. Its receipts break out details like the duration of the trip and the distance traveled, which helps riders better understand overall costs. In its receipts, Uber does not show the length and duration of the trip; it shows a fare price. The vagueness can make things more confusing, especially when prices are higher because of unexpected circumstances like heavy traffic.In addition, because Uber is generally more popular in most cities, in my experience its surge markup is often significantly higher than Lyft’s, meaning riders are typically better off summoning a Lyft when cars are in high demand. Uber declined to comment, citing a quiet period before its I.P.O.Like airlines that reward loyal customers, Uber and Lyft offer some goodies to frequent riders.Uber provides a tiered rewards system. For most rides, you earn two points for every dollar spent, and the points help you climb toward higher statuses with different perks. At 2,500 points, for example, you reach platinum status, which gives you priority access to drivers at airports, among other things. Uber also offers Uber Cash, a program that gives discounts to those who buy credits that can be applied toward rides. So if you buy $100 of credits, Uber will give you $105 in Uber Cash, effectively a 5 percent discount. Lyft’s rewards program is limited. Last year, it started a program for people who set up business profiles, a tool that made it easier for riders to expense Lyft rides to their companies. For every five business rides that people took, they got $5 in personal ride credit. Late last year, Lyft said it would expand its rewards program so that all rides accrued points that could earn perks, like savings on future rides or upgrades to fancier cars. But so far the feature is available in only a few cities, and Lyft customers can join the program only once they receive an invitation via email or the app.The verdict: Frequent riders will benefit more from Uber’s rewards program, which is more comprehensive and compelling. If you are the conscientious type of consumer, take a look at the companies’ histories.In 2017, Uber was mired in scandal after scandal. Among them: A former employee detailed a rampant culture of sexual harassment; the company was revealed to have used a secret program to identify law enforcement officials and evade sting operations; and it disclosed that hackers had stolen data from 57 million driver and user accounts and kept the breach secret for more than a year. Uber’s former chief executive, Travis Kalanick, was forced to resign.Lyft has a cleaner track record. Last year, The Information reported that some Lyft employees had improperly gained access to user data, including rides taken by their romantic partners and high-profile executives like Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg. The company investigated the allegations and added restrictions to employee access to data.The verdict: Though neither company is innocent, Lyft wins by a long shot.Uber has an advantage because of its broad availability worldwide. The company, which has operations in 63 countries, is a behemoth compared with Lyft, which is available in just the United States and Canada. The bottom line: In terms of features, reward programs and availability, Uber has an edge over Lyft. Even if you prefer Lyft in your hometown for ethical reasons, it may be practical to keep the Uber app on your phone in case you travel somewhere like London, Paris or Tokyo. Or you could try to hail an old-school taxicab wherever you travel, assuming you can find one. An earlier version of this article misstated how the Uber app reflects the company's so-called surge fares. When prices surge now, the app simply quotes only the higher price. It does not show a multiplier — for example, 3X, meaning the fare was triple the normal cost — as it did in the past.Brian X. Chen is the lead consumer technology writer. He reviews products and writes Tech Fix, a column about solving tech-related problems. Before joining The Times in 2011 he reported on Apple and the wireless industry for Wired.  @bxchen Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Nick CorasanitiNEWARK — Drawing on themes from the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s “Letter From a Birmingham Jail,” Senator Cory Booker pitched his campaign for president in newly urgent terms on Saturday, declaring that “we are here today to say we can’t wait” as he laid out his vision for addressing the economic and social ills of the country.In what was billed as the major hometown rally kicking off his campaign, Mr. Booker spoke to a late-arriving but enthusiastic crowd at Military Park, a revitalized green oasis in a city that was once a symbol of urban despair but has credible claims of an economic and cultural resurgence. Mr. Booker combined his familiar themes of unity with specific policies to close the racial wealth gap, repair what he considers a broken criminal justice system and set the country on a path to be a leader in climate change.“We can’t wait when powerful forces are turning their prejudice into policy and rolling back the rights that generations of Americans fought for and heroes died for,” Mr. Booker said. “We can’t wait when this administration is throwing children fleeing violence into cages, banning Muslims from entering the nation founded on religious liberty, and preventing brave transgender Americans from serving the country they love.”The event also marked a kind of apex of Mr. Booker’s focus on Newark, a city he mentions more often on the campaign trail than his own name, hoping that the city’s rocky yet resilient rise can help propel him to the top of a crowded Democratic field for the 2020 election.In a race that features six senators, Mr. Booker has often sought to shift the focus from his time in Washington to his tenure in what is known as Brick City, when he was a young, upstart mayor who quickly achieved celebrity status for his well-documented and social-media-fueled efforts to turn around Newark.“There is nobody in this race who has been a chief executive officer of their state’s largest city managing through a recession,” Mr. Booker told crowds in New Hampshire last weekend.But it is a pitch that is not without risk.[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.]While Newark, which has a population of 285,000, is clearly in the midst of a revival, it still struggles with crime and poverty. The median household income is roughly $20,000 less than the national average, and more than 28 percent of the city’s residents live below the poverty line, according to the United States census.And Mr. Booker’s tenure in Newark was not without blemishes. The Police Department, plagued by decades of mismanagement and corruption, was investigated by the Department of Justice and placed under a consent decree. The results were mixed for a highly touted $100 million investment in Newark schools by Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook. And though homicides reached historic lows early in Mr. Booker’s first term, crime began to tick back up just as he was elected to the Senate in 2013, eliciting criticism that he had stopped focusing on the city with his sights set on Washington.Ras Baraka, the current mayor of Newark, was one of those critics. But he has since reconciled with Mr. Booker, and the two have united around a message of progress sparked by Mr. Booker and brought across the finish line by Mr. Baraka (his re-election slogan last year was “Touchdown!”).[Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.]“If you make your bones here, there is no place out there that can stop you in this country,” Mr. Baraka said, referring to Newark. “I usually tell people he got us on the field, and we took the ball and got us in the end zone. But if you can’t get in the game, you don’t get to win the championship. Senator Booker got us in the game.”Amid the crowd on a surprisingly hot April afternoon, Mr. Booker basked in the city’s renewal, as evidenced by the street vendors lining the park and the long shadows cast by skyscrapers, both venerable ones and new glass towers bearing the logos of Fortune 500 companies.“When this city took a chance on me as their mayor, the chief executive of this city, I didn’t wait to bring people together,” Mr. Booker said. He continued: “We got people to invest here. We opened new businesses, created thousands of new jobs — and after 60 years of decline, Newark is growing again.”Mr. Booker began his campaign for president with a video from the streets of the city he still calls home, and his campaign swings feature the near ubiquitous campaign line of “I got my degree at Stanford but my Ph.D. on the streets of Newark.” But he ratcheted up his focus on Newark in the weeks before the rally.In a recent campaign swing through New Hampshire, Mr. Booker recalled his much-publicized battle with Conan O’Brien, who as host of “The Tonight Show” in 2009 joked that a better health care plan for citizens of Newark “would consist of a bus ticket out of Newark.” Mr. Booker responded by recording a video “banning” Mr. O’Brien from the city’s international airport. The tiff played out for weeks on social media and late-night shows, before Hillary Clinton stepped in to broker a peace deal.Mr. Booker, who critics sometimes charge chased fame more than his mayoral duties, paints the whole affair as a clever bit of earned publicity for his struggling city.“That video went viral,” Mr. Booker told a crowd at a house party in Bedford, N.H., last week. “Every show I was going on — I went on Jay Leno — every chance I had I talked about the opportunities in Newark. I bragged about my city with more American eyes watching than ever before.”Leading up to Mr. Booker’s address was a cattle call of influential New Jersey Democrats, including Gov. Philip D. Murphy, Senator Robert Menendez, Mr. Baraka and Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr., the Essex County executive.But as much as his home state and city were represented at the rally — even the marching band from his launch video took the stage to warm up the crowd before Mr. Baraka spoke — Mr. Booker continued to focus on a sense of critical national urgency.In choosing to have his kickoff rally on April 13, Mr. Booker pointed to the same day in 1963, when Dr. King first woke up in a jail in Birmingham and began writing what would become “Letter From a Birmingham Jail.”“Generations of Americans have shown us what was possible when they refused to wait,” Mr. Booker said. “Now it’s our turn. And we have work to do.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the year that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote “Letter From a Birmingham Jail.” It was 1963, not 1969.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Christina CaronPinterest, a digital platform popular with parents, took an unusual step to crack down on the proliferation of anti-vaccination propaganda: It purposefully hobbled its search box.Type “vaccine” into its search bar and nothing pops up. “Vaccination” or “anti-vax”? Also nothing.Pinterest, which allows people to save pictures on virtual pinboards, is often used to find recipes for picky toddlers, baby shower décor or fashion trends, but it has also become a platform for anti-vaccination activists who spread misinformation on social media.It is an especially effective way to reach parents: 80 percent of mothers and 38 percent of fathers in the United States are on Pinterest, according to 2017 data from comScore. The company has more than 250 million monthly active users and is expected to go public this year.Other platforms like Facebook and YouTube have also been infiltrated with misinformation about vaccines, and are taking steps to combat it. One of YouTube’s policies is to demonetize anti-vaccine videos.But only Pinterest, as first reported by The Wall Street Journal, has chosen to banish results associated with certain vaccine-related searches, regardless of whether the results might have been reputable.“Right now, blocking results in search is a temporary solution to prevent people from encountering harmful misinformation,” said Jamie Favazza, a spokeswoman. The company said it was working with experts to develop a more tailored long-term approach.The changes, which were not publicly announced, started in September and October.Opposition to vaccinations can be traced to the introduction of the first vaccine in the 18th century. Over time most people accepted vaccines, and diseases that could be prevented by them declined. They declined so much, in fact, that the success of vaccines may have muted the dangers associated with those diseases.The World Health Organization identified “vaccine hesitancy” as one of this year’s 10 notable threats to global health.“I think this is stunning,” said Dr. Gregory A. Poland, director of the Mayo Clinic’s Vaccine Research Group in Rochester, Minn. “It shows the magnitude of the problem.”Despite clear evidence that vaccines are effective and safe, some people still choose not to get vaccinated or to vaccinate their children, which has contributed to a surge in measles cases worldwide. In the United States, there have been five measles outbreaks this year and at least 127 individual cases.One or two in 1,000 children who contract this highly contagious disease will die. Last year, measles killed 72 adults and children in the European region, where measles has reached its highest levels in two decades. While measles deaths are rare in developed countries, the illness can have severe lasting consequences, such as vision loss.There are several reasons for vaccine hesitancy: worries about side effects, cost, moral or religious objections, fears about a debunked link to autism and lack of knowledge about immunizations.“We’re just seeing all sorts of misinformation flying around on social media,” said Arthur L. Caplan, head of the Division of Medical Ethics at the New York University School of Medicine, who has been writing about vaccine ethics and policy for 25 years.“Fake news. Fake science,” he said on Friday. “Everybody’s an expert.”Last week, Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, a Democrat and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, wrote a letter to Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, asking what steps the company was taking to prevent anti-vaccine information from being recommended to users. He sent a similar letter to Sundar Pichai, the chief executive of Google, which owns YouTube.YouTube said on Thursday that it started surfacing more authoritative content in late 2017 for people searching for vaccination-related topics, and that its algorithmic changes would become more accurate over time.YouTube also said it does not permit anti-vaccine videos to show ads.“We have strict policies that govern what videos we allow ads to appear on, and videos that promote anti-vaccination content are a violation of those policies,” a YouTube spokeswoman said on Friday. “We enforce these policies vigorously, and if we find a video that violates them we immediately take action and remove ads.”An analysis by The Daily Beast of seven Facebook pages that promote anti-vaccine posts found that the pages had bought a combined 147 Facebook ads that had been viewed millions of times. Most of them targeted women over the age of 25, it reported.“We’ve taken steps to reduce the distribution of health-related misinformation on Facebook, but we know we have more to do,” Andrea Vallone, a Facebook spokeswoman, said in a statement. “We’re currently working on additional changes that we’ll be announcing soon.”The company said it was considering reducing or removing this type of content from recommendations and demoting it in search results.Dr. Poland, an internist who has spent 35 years in the vaccine field, said he often encountered patients who relied on social media when researching health questions.“I will explain to a patient in detail the answer to their question and they’ll look at me and say, ‘Yeah, but I saw on Facebook that …’” he said, his voice trailing off. “You just want to tear your hair out.”Twitter said that it had no specific policy to stem the spread of misinformation about vaccines but that its real-time nature was a “powerful antidote.”“We, as a company, should not be the arbiter of truth,” Katie Rosborough, a Twitter spokeswoman, said in a statement on Friday, adding that the company was working to surface the highest-quality and most relevant content first.For all of these companies, containing the spread of misinformation, particularly about something as emotionally charged as vaccines, will be a lasting challenge as they balance fears about censorship with the need to promote useful content, experts said.“It’s a mess that I don’t see easily solved,” Dr. Poland said.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byEssayBy John SchwartzIt’s unicorn season and the money is gushing on Wall Street.I’ve figured out a way to get hold of some of that money, and maybe you’d like to join me. It involves industry disruption and crisis management, with my own soulless twist.This is high-tech stuff, so let me define a few technical terms.First, by unicorns, I’m talking about fantastic beasts: privately held companies worth at least a billion dollars. (Insert your joke here about who can catch a unicorn.) Unicorns like Lyft are sold to investors in  initial public offerings of stock (also known as I.P.O.s), enabling insiders to make a ton of money. The precise terminology for these lucky people is “obscenely rich.”As always, I’ve been wondering: How can I become even naughtily rich? The trick is to find a business I can bootstrap to billions.Disrupting established industries seems to be the way to go: Even children know that Lyft and Uber have disrupted taxi service and Airbnb has disrupted hotels.Now it’s my turn to make a fortune. The crisis management business seems to be ripe for disruption.Crises are everywhere, especially in the business world. A company called Theranos failed so spectacularly that it has generated a best-selling book, an HBO documentary and a big podcast. Theranos claimed to have revolutionized blood tests. It has been a disaster, like the Fyre festival, but with pricked fingers.Then there’s Boeing, not to mention a number of current presidential campaigns. You get the idea.Crisis managers are already in great demand, but I intend to do something different: I’ll create crises, then solve them, leading to a staggeringly successful unicorn I.P.O.Lyft just had its I.P.O. and may soon be followed by some of the biggest names in tech, including Uber, Airbnb and Slack, the annoyingly ubiquitous program for sharing messages in the workplace.Exciting, right? Hope you like roller coasters: Lyft’s shares dropped below their offering price by their second day of trading, which means the stock price could use a … well, you know.The point with an I.P.O. is to be an insider, not a chump who gets fleeced by the insiders. Lyft’s founders, employees and early backers are getting quite a payday. Andreessen Horowitz, the venture capital firm, comes away with about $900 million in instant profit. Carl C. Icahn apparently made about $550 million, according to The Wall Street Journal, by selling his stake to George Soros.That’s the life for me: mogul. I’ve been driving the same car for 10 years. It’s time to move up to something that extravagantly shows how much I love the planet. Not a mere Tesla, but the Jaguar electric E-Type Zero, which costs about $400,000.That kind of ride requires I.P.O. money. So, fellow insider, here’s my plan.I formulated it with invaluable help from Eric Dezenhall. He runs Dezenhall Resources, which, among other things, does crisis management. In an email, I told him that my life is an unmanaged crisis, so I need advice if I am to build a future in his field.His response was promising: “You do realize that the whole discipline is a farce, don’t you?” That convinced me that crisis management would be a good fit.He added: “All you need is a sport jacket and a cliché (such as ‘Get ahead of the story,’ a great-sounding phrase that has no meaning.)”This was getting better and better. As a veteran journalist, clichés are my métier. And, as it happens, I own a sport jacket. There are some moth holes, but I’ve gotten pretty good at using a felt-tip pen to match the jacket color with the lining. Mr. Dezenhall was impressed by my inventive use of the felt-tip pen. That, in itself, “is crisis management,” he said.But he cautioned that crisis management is no longer a matter of simply altering perceptions so that a bad situation looks like something good. “What people think we’re going to say is, ‘We didn’t dump PCBs in the river, we’re shampooing the fish!’ and people will say, ‘Ooh, that’s good,’” he said. But, no. That’s old thinking, he said. His trade has evolved.Instead of just changing perceptions, he said, the great crisis managers provide “operational solutions” that address root causes. That way, he said, a company can transcend the fickle and uncontrollable emotions that dominate the 24-hour news cycles and waves of Twitter outrage.So he would not, for example, advise the chief executive of Boeing to go on a televised apology tour for  two recent crashes and the loss of hundreds of lives. (And, in fact, the company’s public response has been notably muted.) These days, he said, such gestures are instantly deemed inadequate. Instead, he said, it’s better to help companies actually fix their problems, which will do more to vindicate them than any snappy patter.That sounded hard.“What you’re saying,” I said, “sounds like it takes actual management ability.” I was beginning to despair. And that’s when the thunderbolt hit me: I could work the other side of the market. Crisis creation!I’d ferret out dire problems and make them much worse. Corporate executives already do that routinely, of course; I mean, just look at the series of apologies from Mark Zuckerberg over … well, almost everything. But hotshot executives have been calling those problems “mistakes.” I’d call them “my strategy.”Mr. Dezenhall ran with the idea: He said I could get paid by short sellers, or work directly with him to concoct scandals that expose companies to reputational crises, which he — and I — would be paid handsomely to relieve. Most of the time, we’d do nothing but wait for the situation to resolve itself and celebrate our success.Ideally, he said, we would cause problems that look like random events and that don’t besmirch the character of the company. He pointed to a spate of syringes found in Pepsi cans in the ’90s. (The Pepsi problem, which I covered a lifetime ago, earning mere workingman’s wages, turned out to be a hoax, with a splash of copycat effect.)Our corporate slogan would be this: Plant a problem, find the problem, claim to fix the problem. All in a profitable day’s work.“The future is in crisis creation!” he said. “I am happy to secretly finance this, and we’ll work together, and hopefully we’ll be on the Forbes 400 list in a few years.”It sounded exciting. It sounded like big money. Also, it sounded like he was joking. Unfortunately, he was. He turned out to be one of those people burdened with a sense of ethics and even a conscience.I need another partner.It could be you! This is a can’t-miss opportunity: We’ll capture a unicorn, throw it into crisis, and reap unfathomable rewards.It will definitely happen, though for now, I’ll keep my day job: describing crises without capitalizing on them.If I save my pennies, who knows? I might be able to get a new sport coat.John Schwartz is a New York Times reporter and author of “This Is the Year I Put My Financial Life in Order.” Follow him on Twitter: @jswatzAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe digital world is not designed to keep women safe. New regulations should be.By Emily ChangMs. Chang, an anchor at Bloomberg TV, is the author of “Brotopia.”Like too many women, I’ve been harassed online. The harasser described in explicit detail how he intended to violate me, though somehow his threats didn’t violate Twitter’s terms of service. Twitter, despite my repeated reports, did nothing. So I did. I gradually tightened my privacy settings across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. I mostly stopped sharing personal, nonwork-related updates and deleted photos of my children; I haven’t posted new pictures for more than a year.I’m a tech journalist, so perhaps I am extra-sensitive to the dangers of the internet. But my concerns are widely shared by other women.Several studies have found that women are more concerned about privacy risks online than men and are more likely to keep their profiles private and delete unwanted contacts. Female Italian college students are less likely to share their political views and relationship status than men and are more concerned about risks posed by other users and third parties. Norwegian women post fewer selfies than Norwegian men.In other words, digital privacy is a women’s issue. We just don’t think about it that way, or discuss it that way. Of course, privacy is a concern for everyone, but this is also an issue, like health care, on which women have a particular view. Women know, for example, what consent really means. It’s not scrolling through seemingly endless “terms of service” and then checking a box. Online consent, just as it is with our bodies, should be clear, informed and a requirement for online platforms. These views are shaped by the reality that women experience the internet differently, just as the experience of walking down a dark alley, or even a busy street, is different for women than it is for men. One Pew study found that women are far more likely to be sexually harassed online and describe these interactions as extremely upsetting. The Department of Justice reports that about 75 percent of the victims of stalking and cyberstalking are women. And so women look over our shoulders online, just as we do in real life.It isn’t just that real-life harassment also shows up online, it’s that the internet isn’t designed for women, even when the majority of users of some popular applications and platforms are women. In fact, some features of digital life have been constructed, intentionally or not, in ways that make women feel less safe.For example, you can’t easily use Facebook’s WhatsApp messaging service without a phone number, which many women don’t want to share. Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has promised to build encrypted communication into all its platforms. Just as important is giving users the option to make their messages disappear, so that if a hostile ex somehow got into your phone there would be nothing to see. Even well-meaning efforts at transparency don’t always work that way for women. Lyft’s car pool service shares the registered names of passengers with everyone else in the car. The first name of an incoming passenger flashes in lights across the dashboard, a feature intended to let riders know they are in the right car. A privacy researcher told me that she once jumped into a Lyft shared ride wearing a sweatshirt with her company’s logo. The next day, she received an email from a male passenger saying, “I found you!” Clearly, he had been able to use her first name and the name of her company to track her down online. What he may have thought was cute, she thought was creepy. “Do I have any control over this interaction?” the researcher asked. “You want control over the self you’re putting online, just like you want control over your body.” Note to Lyft: Some passengers would be safer if they were anonymous.With Congress considering whether to draft new privacy regulations, it is important that the specific concerns of women be taken into account now, while the rules are being debated.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]California’s new privacy law is a case in point: It is a bold piece of legislation, but it falls short for women. In the event of a data breach, for example, consumers in California will have the right to sue if certain kinds of personally identifying information, like Social Security numbers or driver’s license numbers, are compromised. But that may not include material like intimate emails or explicit photos. The current iteration of the law is so murky that it’s not clear whether Jennifer Lawrence, the actress whose nude photos were stolen from her iCloud account in 2014 and made public, would have a case against Apple if a similar incident occurred after the law goes into effect next year.California’s “right to be forgotten” also doesn’t go as far as Europe’s new privacy legislation, the most sweeping data reform in history. Under the California law, consumers have the right to delete information they personally provide to companies. But if someone else — say, an unhappy ex — posted something about me online, I would not be able to get that taken down. Under Europe’s new law, though, I would at least be able to request such a post be removed. Although women’s groups have defended privacy as it pertains to abortion, they haven’t yet broadly taken up the issue of digital privacy. Among the few to do so publicly is a grass-roots effort called Catalina’s List, a backer of the California law. “Anything that gives big business an upper hand on individual choices is corrupting the idea of personal choice, freedom and privacy,” a co-founder of Catalina’s List, Bobbi Jo Chavarria, told me. Weaker federal privacy legislation could eventually override the California law. Amazon, Facebook, Google and Microsoft all contributed money to groups opposing the California law, and last year these companies and Apple spent more than $64 million lobbying Congress on privacy and other issues. Tech companies are pushing for what they want; as the research shows, that’s not necessarily what women want.So what can Americans do? First, we must elect more women to positions of power who can help write privacy legislation. I don’t think it’s a coincidence that two of the top digital policymakers in Europe are women, including Margrethe Vestager, the European Union’s competition commissioner, and Elizabeth Denham, Britain’s information commissioner.The law, of course, will never be as fast as tech companies. They should build products and services that respect privacy by design. To do that, these companies need to hire and consult more women. Women hold just 25 percent of jobs across the tech industry and an even smaller percentage of prime engineering roles.Most important, all of us must start thinking about privacy as a feminist issue. We cannot wait for women’s concerns to be addressed. The stakes for us are far too high.Emily Chang (@emilychangtv) is an anchor at Bloomberg TV and the author of “Brotopia.”Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Although the California connections run deep throughout the sprawling college admissions scandal, the complex federal case is now playing out in Boston. My colleague, Kate Taylor, has been covering the court proceedings. Here, she reports on the latest: In a coup for prosecutors and possible bad news for other defendants in the sweeping college admissions fraud investigation, one of the parents charged in the case, Davina Isackson of Hillsborough, Calif., has agreed to plead guilty and to cooperate with the government, according to a person with knowledge of the case.Two other parents have said so far that they intend to plead guilty, and more will probably follow in the coming days. But Ms. Isackson’s agreement to cooperate is significant. Ms. Isackson and her husband, Bruce, a real estate developer, were accused of conspiring with William Singer, the college consultant at the center of the case, to bribe athletics officials in order to secure their daughters’ admission to U.C.L.A. and U.S.C. as athletic recruits.Prosecutors also accused them of paying Mr. Singer so that a proctor could correct their younger daughter’s answers on her ACT exam. The prosecutors have said that the Isacksons paid Mr. Singer a total of $600,000.[Catch up on all of The Times’s coverage here.]Mr. Singer has pleaded guilty to racketeering and other charges.The agreement to cooperate means that Ms. Isackson will share what she knows about the roles that officials at U.C.L.A. and U.S.C. played in the scheme and, if their cases go to trial, could testify against them. It also puts pressure on other parents charged in the recruitment scheme; if Ms. Isackson testifies that she believes her actions were wrong, it makes it harder for others to say that they thought that they were simply making innocent donations.One unusual aspect of the Isacksons’ case is that, according to the charging documents, their older daughter, Lauren, who was admitted to U.C.L.A. as a soccer recruit despite not being a top player, was required to participate on the team as a student-athlete for a year. She is listed on the 2017 roster as a midfielder. Most students involved in the case did not actually play on the teams they had been recruited for.Prosecutors say that, after Lauren Isackson was provisionally admitted to U.C.L.A., Mr. Singer directed $100,000 to a sports marketing company controlled by Jorge Salcedo, the former head men’s soccer coach at U.C.L.A. The government has charged Mr. Salcedo with conspiracy to commit racketeering, and he has pleaded not guilty.Davina Isackson could shed light on whether the coaches of the women’s soccer team were also in on the scheme. Amanda Cromwell, the head coach of women’s soccer at U.C.L.A. since 2013, did not respond to messages.Both Davina and Bruce Isackson will plead guilty to conspiracy to commit mail fraud and honest services mail fraud, according to the person with knowledge of the case. Mr. Isackson will also plead guilty to money laundering conspiracy and conspiracy to defraud the United States.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• President Trump visited Calexico on Friday to continue to make his case that there’s a crisis on the border and that the country is full. [The New York Times]• Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of Homeland Security, recently conceded that the president’s focus on the wall was, partly, a stunt. On Sunday, she resigned. [The New York Times]• Meanwhile, migrants who fled their Central American home countries in hopes of getting asylum in the U.S. are waiting in Mexico under a newly expanded Trump administration policy. [The New York Times]•Sheriff Alex Villanueva of Los Angeles County has reinstated at least six deputies who were previously let go, including one who was accused of assaulting a woman and lying about it. The rehires have drawn scrutiny to a sheriff who’s been on the job for just a few months. [The Los Angeles Times]• Kimberly Sue Endicott, a tourist from California who was kidnapped with her safari guide in Uganda, has been freed. [The New York Times]• TV writers and agents extended negotiations in a long-running dispute, staving off a potentially major disruption of the entertainment industry. Writers say that in the streaming era, agencies have made moves to enrich themselves at creators’ expense. [The New York Times]• “Every Democrat who wants to unseat President Trump now must figure out where they stand on the death penalty.” Thanks to Gov. Gavin Newsom’s move to stop executions in California, the debate about capital punishment has shifted. [The New York Times]• The Times published a six-month investigation into the Murdoch family and its globe-spanning Fox media empire. Here are the top takeaways. [The New York Times]• Three blocks from Mark Zuckerberg’s $10 million Tudor lives Jake Orta, who makes a living picking through the Facebook founder’s trash. It’s yet another example of the wide divides that separate San Francisco’s residents. [The New York Times]• A dormant debate has emerged over whether a 1,600-square-foot mural in a San Francisco high school is offensive or a historically relevant piece worth preserving. The Depression-era painting, “Life of Washington,” depicts the role of the nation’s first president in slavery and the deaths of American Indians during Westward Expansion. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• A columnist argues that under Mayor Eric Garcetti’s leadership, Los Angeles’s economy is booming, beating out New York and Chicago according to an array of measures. [Bloomberg]Coachella starts this weekend, which means Daniel Moon will probably be very busy over the next few days.He’s the L.A.-based hair colorist who’s hand-painted the heads of celebrities like Kanye West, Katy Perry and Miley Cyrus neon and candy hues. Madonna once told him he made her feel like a Basquiat.Mr. Moon got his start bleaching the hair of his wrestling teammates in high school as a way to make them stand out. Later, after a stint in the Marines that ended in 2001, he apprenticed at high-end salons.Now, he has his own place.Mr. Moon told The Times that he likes working with clients who are as open to getting out there as he is.“Everybody is in a really good head space when I show up,” he said. “They’re like, ‘All right, dude, what you got?’”California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" work FriendDon’t worry about your lurky, stalky colleague. Worry about Mark Zuckerberg.CreditCreditEmily Simms for The New York TimesSupported byBy Katy LedererSend questions about the office, money, careers and work-life balance to workfriend@nytimes.com. Include your name and location, even if you want them withheld. Letters may be edited.I do not get along with one of my colleagues. We do not talk unless it’s work-related. I have tried to be friendly, but after a few years of working with him, the relationship is nonexistent.Recently, I see that he is a frequent viewer of my social media posts. However, he does not follow me, which means he takes the time out of his day to search for my account. This bothers me because if he can’t at least say hi, then why take an interest in my personal life? I do not want to make my account private simply because of him, as I’ve found a lot of value in keeping it public.This morning, we passed each other in the hallway again, without saying a word, and his gaze turned away from me even though I smiled and acknowledged his presence. I really feel like saying something to him about his after-work lurking. Should I?— AnonymousDon’t make your account private simply because of him. Make your account private simply because of yourself. Better yet, just delete the app from all of your devices.Because look, here’s the thing: If you think your creepy friend at work is bad, think about Mark Zuckerberg. Now there’s a corporate backstabber who surveils everybody’s everything in an icky, lurky sort of way. In fact, he not only surveils everybody’s everything, but he monetizes the ability of total spies like Cambridge Analytica to surveil everybody’s everything.It’s understandable for you to be focused on the actual, real-life creepazoid you pass in the hallway every day. But consider the possibility that less identifiable corporate climbers and glad-handers also pose a threat. Your “friends” on social media could at any moment mob you and destroy your life forever. Or an app could track you even while you sleep.The admonition to “keep your friends close and your enemies closer” has come down through the ages to us blockheads for a reason. In the case of your co-worker: If you feel unsafe, you should of course inform H.R. immediately. Otherwise, I suggest you propose a work lunch or a tea and try one more time to establish a superficial relationship with this person.But before you do any of that: Get off social media! And if you choose to stay on: Remember that you’re always being watched.A few months ago, I started a new job at a small company, with a leadership role. I’m feeling as if I am making a lot of positive changes and contributions to the operation and culture of the company, and generally like my co-workers and many aspects of the culture.However, I’ve been blindsided by a major issue. It’s been abundantly clear since my first week that one of the two heads of the firm is an alcoholic. He’s displayed inappropriate behavior in the workplace, and regularly drinks heavily at work — even drinking steadily through presentations and new hire interviews.As someone senior, but not an owner, in the company, I’m unsure of how to cope. There is of course no supervisor to report his behavior to, and his co-head is dealing with a long-term personal issue that makes approaching him inappropriate.I’ve seen a lot of addiction in family and friends, and I know that this is an issue that won’t resolve until he himself recognizes the issue and decides to change. I’m also loath to re-enter the job market. I’d like to help right the ship as much as possible until at least one, or both, of the C.E.O.s can get back to more stable footing.— L., VirginiaThe definition of codependency is excessive reliance on others, particularly those who require a lot of support, for a sense of approval and identity. You are investing far too much in the people and the culture of this job. Step back: Is this job good for you? Will it look good on a résumé? Are you making a good salary? Are you gaining valuable experience? Once the answer to any of these questions is “no,” start looking for another job, even if the market is a special kind of hell.Emotional distress is also worth considering, but you can reduce it in this case by very actively stepping back. As you wisely intuit, you’re not going to fix anything at all. As for coping directly with a boss who is an alcoholic: I might suggest keeping a journal documenting interactions that you have with him. It’s never a bad idea to cover your own derrière for when the lawsuits start to fly.I had an assistant several years ago who worked out fine until she quit and then sued for overtime or some other nonexistent claim. It settled with no money changing hands. This week, I ran into her husband on a flight, and he was extra friendly, wanted to talk, etc. I know he helped her on that bogus claim and I just didn’t feel like being friendly to him. It was an awkward situation in a public setting. Was I correct to blow him off?— SeattleIt’s always better to be friendly than unfriendly. I don’t know if you know this, but smiling is actually an animal behavior that signals nonaggression. To smile is to signal “I don’t intend to hurt you.” The thing about smiling and signaling nonaggression is that, when it’s time to stab a person in the back, you will catch them completely off-guard! And if you have no intention of stabbing them in the back, well, they will think that you are really nice. Either way, there is an upside. You could even call it a “win-win.”What do you do when a co-worker takes credit for one of your ideas?— J.W., New YorkNever ever tell this co-worker one of your ideas again. Don’t bother trying to reclaim the credit. You’ll just look spiteful. Move on with another idea, and keep your eye out for a good opportunity to get even.Katy Lederer is the author of three books of poems and a memoir. Write to her at workfriend@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump said he may let his March 2 deadline for reaching a trade agreement with China “slide for a little while” if the two countries are near a deal by then.Washington and Beijing are deep in negotiations. “In the talks this week, Chinese and U.S. negotiators are focusing on producing a broad outline of a trade agreement for their presidents to clinch at a possible summit,” the WSJ reports. “Officials holding trade and economic portfolios are seeking to narrow the still-substantial gap between the concessions China is willing to offer and what Mr. Trump’s administration will accept.”Mr. Trump wants to maintain momentum. The president characterized those discussions as “going well,” according to Deborah B. Solomon of the NYT, and said he thought the U.S. had a chance “to make a real deal.” He added that he wanted “a real deal, not just a deal that looks cosmetically good for a year.”But any pact will face a big obstacle: Chinese commitment. A history of broken policy promises between China and the rest of the world hangs over U.S. negotiators, Keith Bradsher of the NYT writes. So they want to ensure that “any deal they strike has teeth if Beijing does not live up to its obligations.” One proposed solution: “a mechanism that would automatically raise tariffs on Chinese goods if its exports to the United States keep rising.”The British prime minister reportedly plans to leave a parliamentary vote on her Brexit deal to the last moment, then force politicians to pick between it or a long delay for Britain’s exit from the E.U.That revelation was overheard in a Brussels bar. According to the British broadcaster ITV News, one of its reporters heard Oliver Robbins, one of Mrs. May’s top aides, discussing the plans in a hotel bar. “The issue is whether Brussels is clear on the terms of extension,” Mr. Robbins reportedly said. “In the end they will probably just give us an extension.”Mrs. May previously opposed a delay. She has insisted that lawmakers have a choice between her deal or no deal. “An option to extend for a longer period would just continue the uncertainty,” she told business leaders in a conference call yesterday.The comments could spell trouble for her. They may undermine her efforts to muster enough support in Parliament for her deal. Mrs. May’s office had no comment on the remarks attributed to Mr. Robbins.More Brexit news: The Bank of England’s governor, Mark Carney, said that the potential economic harm from Brexit shows that trade uncertainty can be more damaging than a financial crisis. Economists say that the British economy could improve if a deal is reached. Ford reportedly told Mrs. May that it is preparing alternative production sites outside Britain as a result of Brexit.The carriers’ C.E.O.s are scheduled to appear on Capitol Hill this week to defend T-Mobile’s proposed $26 billion acquisition of Sprint. Their first stop is the House Committee on Energy and Commerce today, where they’ll face Democrats who are increasingly skeptical about letting the nation’s third- and fourth-biggest carriers combine.What to expect: John Legere of T-Mobile will repeat his claim that merging the two companies would create a stronger rival to Verizon and AT&T. “I want to reiterate unequivocally that prices will go down and customers will get more for less,” he told Bloomberg in an interview. And he’ll emphasize the combined company’s ability to roll out 5G wireless service, playing off fears that the U.S. may fall behind China in that area.But lawmakers have issues with the deal. Democrats think a merger would actually increase prices for consumers, as well as bring job cuts. Some lawmakers also contend that promises to increase rural wireless broadband are empty. And some critics say that dozens of stays by Mr. Legere at President Trump’s Washington hotel since the deal was announced may have been improper.A political caveat: Though Democratic opposition to the deal appears to be growing — nine senators called for the deal to be blocked — Congress doesn’t get a say. It can only apply pressure to the Justice Department and the F.C.C. to block it.Still, the telecoms aren’t resting easy. Bloomberg notes that the spread between T-Mobile’s offer price and Sprint’s stock price has grown since December, suggesting that investors think the deal’s chances of winning approval are getting worse.The Trump administration is moving closer to barring telecom companies in the U.S. from using Chinese equipment while building next-generation wireless networks, Julian E. Barnes of the NYT writes.• “The executive order, which has been under discussion for months, is aimed largely at preventing Chinese telecom firms like Huawei from gaining access to the fifth-generation — or 5G — wireless networks that companies are beginning to build in the United States.”• “President Trump has been briefed on the proposed ban, which would prevent the use of equipment from ‘adversarial powers,’ and the order could be issued in the coming days, American government and industry officials said.”The case against a ban: Robert Hannigan, a former director of the British intelligence agency G.C.H.Q., argues in the FT that blanket bans on Chinese tech “make no sense.” Lawmakers, he says, should “base decisions on Chinese involvement in future telecoms on technical expertise and rational assessment of risk, rather than political fashion or trade wars.”The former Nissan chairman, who’s still detained in Japan, has replaced his legal team — perhaps in a bid to try a more aggressive strategy.Who’s out: Motonari Otsuru, a former prosecutor familiar with the tactics employed in Japanese courtrooms.Who’s in: Junichiro Hironaka, whose nickname in Japan is “the innocence contractor.” He has successfully defended government officials against corruption charges and a prominent businessman against accusations of insider dealing.Potentially behind the change: The FT notes that “Mr. Otsuru at times appeared to defend the practices of Japanese prosecutors and the way that suspects are interrogated without the presence of their lawyers.”More Nissan news: The French government reportedly pressed the Japanese carmaker about merging with its corporate sibling, Renault, but was rebuffed. And the company reported a 45 percent drop in third-quarter earnings yesterday.The Chronicle of Philanthropy’s list of the 50 most generous donors to charitable causes shows that they jointly gave $7.8 billion in 2018. That’s impressive — until you compare it to 2017, when donors gave $14.7 billion.Topping the list were Jeff and MacKenzie Bezos, who gave $2 billion. Michael Bloomberg was a distant second, having given $767 million. Other notable donors included Blackstone’s Steve Schwarzman, Mark and Priscilla Zuckerberg, and Bill and Melinda Gates.The drop-off in giving was stark. Theodore Schleifer of Recode points out that Mr. and Ms. Gates gave $138 million to their foundation last year, compared with $4.8 billion in 2017. The Zuckerbergs donated $200 million last year, down from $2 billion in 2017.The big picture: As Mr. Schleifer notes, this shows “how a few decisions by the country’s wealthiest Americans can totally change the portrait of big-dollar philanthropy.” The drop in charitable giving, he adds, comes at a bad time, “given the louder conversation in the U.S. about the responsibilities of billionaires.”Some of America’s largest news publishers are unhappy with the financial terms of a news subscription service that Apple plans to unveil later this year, according to the WSJ, citing unnamed sources.• “The service, described by industry executives as a ‘Netflix for news,’ would allow users to read an unlimited amount of content from participating publishers for a monthly fee.”• BuzzFeed reports, citing anonymous sources, that it is expected to be unveiled on March 25.• But “in its pitch to some news organizations, the Cupertino, Calif., company has said it would keep about half of the subscription revenue from the service,” according to the WSJ.• “Another concern for some publishers is that they likely wouldn’t get access to subscriber data, including credit-card information and email addresses.”• “The New York Times and the Washington Post are among the major outlets that so far haven’t agreed to license their content to the service, in part because of concerns over the proposed terms.”The former N.J. governor weighed in on the presidential race at a party for his new book last night. (It was hosted by the hedge fund magnate Steve Cohen at his Midtown Manhattan penthouse, which is up for sale for $45 million.) Here were some of Mr. Christie’s observations:• He called the Democratic senators Kamala Harris and Cory Booker, both of whom are black, “articulate.” Of Ms. Harris, he said, “She presents herself pretty well.” Of potential supporters of Mr. Booker, he said, “Will they love him for the second speech, third speech and fourth speech?”• He wondered of Joe Biden: “Is he going to be the adult in the room or is he going to be crazy Uncle Joe?”• Of Senator Amy Klobuchar, he said, “Her entire rollout gets stepped on by a whole bunch of her former staff saying that she’s a monster, and screams and yells and throws stuff at people and is a lunatic to work for,” adding, “I don’t see her being in the right spot.”At the party: Gary Cohn, the former Trump economic adviser and Goldman Sachs president; John Flannery, who was ousted as G.E.’s chief executive last fall; and Douglas Haynes, who resigned as president of Mr. Cohen’s Point72 hedge fund.Activision Blizzard plans to lay off 8 percent of its workers, or 775 employees, as traditional video game companies struggle to compete with hits like “Fortnite.”Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund, the Public Investment Fund, is opening an office in San Francisco to help strike more tech deals.Deals• Amazon and GM are reportedly in talks to invest in Rivian, a start-up that plans to build electric pickup trucks, at a valuation of up to $2 billion. (Reuters)• Lyft’s founders are planning to keep control of the ride-hailing company after it goes public, despite owning just 10 percent of its shares. (WSJ)• Ellie Mae, a mortgage software company, agreed to sell itself to the investment firm Thoma Bravo for about $3.7 billion. (Reuters)• France is calling for an overhaul of E.U. merger rules. (FT)Politics and policy• President Trump says he’s “not happy” with Congress’s deal to fund border security, but declined to say whether he would veto it. Allies predict the president will ultimately approve it. (NYT, Politico)• A new Prudential survey shows how the 35-day government shutdown hurt federal workers. One example: 62 percent depleted most of their emergency savings. (Axios)• Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, proposed raising taxes on capital gains to discourage companies from stock buybacks. (CNBC)Trade• How President Trump’s trade war has hurt American whiskey. (NYT)• China has held talks with Venezuela to protect its investments there. (WSJ)• Tesla has been importing Model 3s into China ahead of the March 2 deadline for U.S.-China trade talks. (SCMP)Tech• In an awkward Twitter-based interview, the social network’s C.E.O., Jack Dorsey, said that his company and its peers haven’t done enough to fight abuse. (Wired, Reuters)• Why Amazon is caught in an unexpected brawl in New York about its new campus. Also: The company is now raising prices at Whole Foods, having slashed them when it first took over. (NYT, WSJ)• The Pentagon’s new A.I. strategy document, released the day after the White House unveiled a poorly received directive on the topic, reads in part like a pitch deck to Silicon Valley. (Fortune, Axios)• Governor Gavin Newsom of California has proposed a “digital dividend” that would allow consumers to take a slice of Big Tech’s profits. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• The Fed’s chairman, Jerome Powell, says that U.S. economic expansion has been uneven. (WSJ)• A lawsuit by CBS shareholders accuses current and former executives of insider trading because they sold stock ahead of disclosures about sexual harassment allegations against Les Moonves. (WSJ)• The Mexican crime lord known as El Chapo was convicted yesterday after a three-month trial in New York. (NYT)• The national debt has risen above $22 trillion for the first time. (AP)• Americans are highly optimistic about their finances right now. Perhaps they shouldn’t be. (Barron’s)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article reported incorrectly on charitable donations made by Bill and Melinda Gates last year. Mr. and Ms. Gates personally, not the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, gave $138 million, not $150 million.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Yesterday was another busy news day in California. A historically wet winter helped officially end a more than seven-year drought, and fallout from the college admissions fraud investigation continued to spread: Students spurned by universities allegedly involved have begun to sue, saying they unwittingly participated in a process rigged against them.[Here are answers to all your questions about the scandal.]But today, we wanted to dig into the Los Angeles contemporary art scene. Jason Farago, a critic for The New York Times, recently made his way west for a piece exploring L.A.’s place in a global art ecosystem. He wrote about how he approached an expansive landscape: It’s almost a rite of passage for a New York Times art critic to be sent to Los Angeles to take the temperature of the city’s museums and galleries, and to pronounce whether the second-largest city in America has “caught up” to our hometown. As long ago as 1956, one of my predecessors wrote that “spectacular myths hover with the smog over Los Angeles obscuring the considerable progress this city has made in terms of the arts during the last few years.”So when my editor and I sat down to plan my recent story on contemporary art in Los Angeles, timed to the West Coast debut of London’s Frieze Art Fair, we set ourselves some ground rules. No clichés of L.A. as a dream factory of endless sunny days. No cooing over allegedly cheaper rent, which has become a myth of its own. Even the go-to jokes about traffic no longer made sense now that the New York subway has buckled into chronic dysfunction.Over a week in Los Angeles — plus a few days in Palm Springs, scoping out the sculpture of the Desert X biennial — my priority was to assess the city on its own terms. I visited just about every museum and gallery from Brentwood to Boyle Heights.I had coffees with museum directors and beers with recent M.F.A.s, whose local concerns dovetailed with global artistic ambitions. Plunked in the middle of it all were two new art fairs — Frieze, held on the Paramount backlot, and Felix, staged in the guest rooms and cabanas of a Hollywood hotel — that were the first to draw a global audience to Los Angeles after years of false starts. (My colleague Jori Finkel had a report from the fairs.)Surveying any city’s art scene, let alone one as diverse as L.A.’s, is a game of omissions. With more space I’d have covered stalwart galleries like Regen Projects, in Hollywood; newer ones like Château Shatto, downtown; and nonprofits like Art + Practice, Mark Bradford’s space in South L.A.The collector base is growing, though it remains small relative to the city’s wealth. Alternative spaces like the Underground Museum, the Cabin, and Bel Ami are doing very good work.The city’s boosters want critics to tell you that Los Angeles is now the center of the contemporary art scene. But the truth is that no single city can lead the way in producing the art of our time. Los Angeles, like every large city, is now a constituent of a global art system, where none of us is insulated from the flows of money and images. That may not be a satisfying conclusion, but at least it gives us the space to understand this wonderful city as it really is.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Who deserves Pacific Gas & Electric’s assets: Employees seeking bonuses or wildfire victims? It’s a question complicated by the typical corporate bankruptcy process, which often leaves some parties at a big disadvantage. [The New York Times]• Amid mounting controversies and a criminal investigation, two top Facebook executives are leaving, including Chris Cox, who is a member of Mark Zuckerberg’s inner circle. [The New York Times]• Still, Facebook’s daylong malfunction this week was a reminder of how many lives the company touches on a daily basis, and of the fragility of the internet. [The New York Times]• A new Stanford study looked at 100 million traffic stops. It found that black and Latino drivers were stopped more often based on less evidence. [NBC News]• After a 22nd horse died since Dec. 26, officials at Santa Anita Park banned drugs and whips. The spike in fatalities highlights horse racing’s lack of meaningful oversight, and the park’s owners said leaders needed to do better if they want the sport to survive. [The New York Times]• U.S.C. has in recent decades tried hard to overcome its reputation as a school for wealthy kids, investing in a strong athletic program and high-profile academics. But a spate of leadership failures and scandals — and now, its place in the F.B.I.’s college admissions investigation — have left Trojan family members wondering about the school’s future. [The New York Times]• Near the end of a weird week for Tesla, Elon Musk unveiled the company’s latest Model Y, a “baby S.U.V.” Yes, that means Tesla has models S, 3, X and Y, and yes, that was intentional. (Ford holds the trademark for “Model E.”) [Wired]• Each tech wave has been fueled by so-called mafias — cohorts of former colleagues who support one another’s work and fund one another’s projects. So what will a future built by Airbnb and Uber mafias look like? And who will be excluded? [The New York Times]• A photojournalist who’s followed Jordan Bell through his rookie season talked with the Warriors big man about some of the moments he captured in this neat visual project. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Everything you ever wanted to know about why Sacramento has so many orange trees. (A perfect Mediterranean climate helps a lot. Also you can pick your neighbor’s fruit if it’s hanging over into your yard, but you should probably ask first, just in case.) [The Sacramento Bee]If you live in San Diego, consider us jealous. Not only can you make a (relatively) quick trip to check out Estacion Federal — the hip Tijuana commons its developer recently described as “part artistic community, part commuter waypoint and part gastro-utopia” — but you’re also in a good position to check out El Jardín. That’s Tejal Rao’s recommendation this week:I’ve been spending time in San Diego lately, and reviewed one of the standouts for this week’s Food section: El Jardín, which opened last year in a new mixed-use development on a former Navy training base. And the chef, Claudette Zepeda-Wilkins, is a local, a border kid who grew up splitting her time between Mexico and the United States.Her menu celebrates the range, sophistication and diversity of Mexican cuisine, bringing together dishes that don’t usually live under the same roof, like giant Sonoran hot dogs, Yucatecan-style octopus cooked with sour oranges, and the fava-bean-filled tlacoyos of Mexico City.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misidentified the title of an artwork. It is “Ground Transposition,” not “Ground Transportation.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookBy Amanda HessI started noticing it a few years ago: Seemingly every young person on the internet was selling something. Not in the way that we’re all selling ourselves now, cultivating our personal brands on social media. They were selling actual stuff. Shipping hoverboards from China and unloading them in their American high schools. Running parody Twitter accounts that fed into viral ad networks. Posting sponsored content on Instagram for pocket money and freebies.Occasionally these youthful businesses evidenced a casual relationship with grift. The hoverboards literally blew up. The Twitter accounts stole jokes from struggling comics. Teenage influencers started concocting fake brand deals so they could appear worthy of corporate sponsorship.The sprites behind the schemes could come across as craven; an online crew of viral marketers referred to non-entrepreneurial peers as “peasants.” But most of them seemed sincere. They wanted to change the world, and they believed that the way to do that was to start their own businesses. Immediately. If corners were cut along the way, they were cut honestly. They were just kids.I’ve been thinking of them as last year’s “summer of scam” has extended into a never-ending, all-weather “scam season.” We are held rapt by tales of big-time millennial grifters, entrepreneurs whose dizzy rises are rivaled only by their disastrous ends. Among them is Billy McFarland (born in 1991), the impresario who dreamed up the doomed Bahamas-based Fyre music festival; Elizabeth Holmes (b. 1984), creator of the at-home blood-testing service Theranos, which was once valued at more than $9 billion but never really worked; and Anna Delvey (b. 1991), the so-called SoHo Scammer, who is said to have passed herself off as a German heiress in a bid to build a plush Manhattan arts club named after herself.Now their tales are fueling a genre of grifter-related entertainment. Earlier this month, Hulu and Netflix dropped rival streaming documentaries on Fyre. Soon HBO will air a documentary about Holmes directed by Alex Gibney, while ABC News has its own documentary and a podcast, too. An Anna Delvey show written by Shonda Rhimes is on its way to Netflix.Stories of scammers are reliably captivating. Mark Twain’s fiction held a soft spot for the flimflam man. The terms grifter and scam have their beginnings in the carnival circuit of the early 20th century, and scam is the root of the term scamp — as in, lovable rogue. There’s a reason we call them con artists.These people have always exploited a certain proximity to America’s most storied figures. “The Inventor,” HBO’s Theranos documentary, draws comparisons between Holmes and one of her idols, Thomas Edison, who may have been better at cultivating his public image as an inventor than he was at actually inventing. The math behind the American dream — a nobody, combined with pure grit, transforms into a somebody — is already a reach. The grifter just stretches the concept a little further.But perhaps no moment has been so primed for grift as our current one. As Jia Tolentino wrote in The New Yorker last year: “At some point between the Great Recession, which began in 2008, and the terrible election of 2016, scamming seems to have become the dominant logic of American life.” The mantras of Silicon Valley — Think big! Think different! Move fast and break things! — encourage harebrained scheming. Venture capital requires business ideas to reap more than profits; they must promise explosive growth. And moving fast is presented not as a shortcut to getting rich but a necessary aspect of any successful venture. The grandiose expectations placed on actual children have grown wildly out of proportion with the economic reality into which they’ve been born. Only a scam could bridge the gap.One of the greatest modern scams is the entrepreneurial fetish itself, and its marks are getting younger and younger. Silicon Valley has always romanticized the college dropout, from Gates and Jobs to Zuckerberg and Holmes. (The ABC News projects on Holmes are titled “The Dropout.”) Now a broader effort seeks to enlist children into ventures at an age before their prefrontal cortex is fully formed. In 2017, the magazine Teen Bo$$ debuted to set preteens on the fast track to wealth under the tagline “Dream big & learn fast!” And last year, Entrepreneur magazine ran its own issue on teen titans, featuring a 13-year-old candy C.E.O. on its cover. Her secret? “I just felt like I had nothing to lose.” By the time she was 10, Holmes had decided what she wanted to be when she grew up: “a billionaire.”Meanwhile, the tools of grift have rarely been more attainable. Early chat rooms introduced a generation of kids to the pastime of pretending to be other people online. Now, everyone with a smartphone can create and manipulate images. And in this hyper-visual culture, constructing an image of something can feel like the most important step in conjuring the thing itself. Just ask the Chinese manufacturers that hawk clothes online with images of glamorous magazine spreads, then ship out disfigured imitations to unsuspecting customers.Holmes was obsessed with the image of a finger-prick drop of blood unlocking a wealth of medical information, and many powerful people liked the picture, too. (“The Inventor” makes much of a photo shoot in which Holmes holds a tiny red vial between her fingertips.) The only thing the Fyre Festival did well was create a viral ad featuring famous models cavorting on yachts and swimming with pigs. At some level, we are all growing familiar with this kind of sleight of hand. On Instagram, we are training to create beautiful images of ourselves with no possibility — or really, expectation — that they be replicated in person.McFarland may be the one in prison for fraud, but the most fascinating thing about Fyre was how deep the scam reached. The festival was marketed by Jerry Media, an online advertising agency that began as a popular Instagram account that cribbed other peoples’ memes without credit. It was aggressively promoted by Instagram influencers — those model/advertiser/guru hybrids whose entire project rests on smoke and mirrors. Even the documentaries on the festival seemed compromised. Hulu  paid McFarland for an interview, while Elliot Tebele, the founder of Jerry Media, is an executive producer of the Netflix documentary. It was scams all the way down.And at the top? The closest-held secret of modern scam artists is how woefully unimaginative they really are. Our oversaturated scam culture seems to have produced something new: utterly unappealing con men and women who could not credibly be referred to as “artists” at all.Though the Fyre documentaries are stocked with associates who swear to McFarland’s charm, he appears to have all the appeal of a sentient airport lounge. Holmes, built up as a striking female entrepreneur with a heartfelt personal story, is revealed as stilted and vampiric onscreen; “The Inventor” includes a haunting scene in which she celebrates a company win by dancing robotically to MC Hammer. And since her unmasking, Delvey has been dragged on the internet for her tellingly bad hair.There’s not a lovable scamp or a master chameleon in the bunch. They’re just young people who wanted to make something incredible, failed and couldn’t accept it. In a word, unexceptional. These days, there’s a scammer born every minute.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get it by email.)It’s a grim conundrum plaguing communities throughout the state: Everyone agrees that homelessness is a problem and that shelters and service centers would help get people off the streets. But other residents say they don’t want such facilities to be built anywhere near them.A version of this problem has sprung up in San Francisco — and, because it’s San Francisco, it’s been heightened by the influence of tech money. My colleague Mike Isaac, who covers tech, wrote about the fight:It began as a disagreement between homeowners and the city.By late last week, that disagreement swelled into a full-fledged battle between groups of San Francisco residents over what to do with a center intended to provide shelter and resources for the homeless.The debate is centered around a plan by Mayor London Breed, who has proposed the city should erect a Navigation Center for the homeless on a stretch of vacant land near the city shoreline.The center, which would offer roughly 225 beds and other resources to the homeless, would be situated at Seawall Lot 330, a 2.3 acre parcel currently being used as a parking lot, sitting off the Embarcadero near the Bay Bridge.But a group of homeowners in nearby luxury apartments aren’t having it. Residents in the Rincon Hill and SOMA areas have banded together to oppose the Navigation Center, claiming that it would turn the area into a “dirty, dangerous” neighborhood. Members of the group have flooded into community hearings and meetings to voice concerns.To further the cause, the group started an online crowdfunding page under the name “Safe Embarcadero for All.” The group’s GoFundMe campaign has raised more than $80,000 to hire a lawyer to push back against the city.As news of the GoFundMe hit the internet in a San Francisco Chronicle article last week, other San Francisco residents took umbrage with the group’s goal. William Fitzgerald, a local community activist and supporter of building resource centers for San Francisco’s upward of 7,000 homeless citizens, decided to build his own GoFundMe. Mr. Fitzgerald’s competing campaign, “A Safer Embarcadero for All,” intended to raise funds to support the building of the Navigation Center in the area.Mr. Fitzgerald’s GoFundMe page went up on Thursday. By Friday, the group had raised tens of thousands of dollars, and was steadily gaining more supporters as word of the effort spread virally.Marc Benioff, the tech billionaire and founder of Salesforce, donated $10,000 to Mr. Fitzgerald’s campaign. The co-founders of Twilio matched Mr. Benioff with thousands of their own. Hours later, Jack Dorsey, co-founder of Twitter, donated $25,000 of his own money to the project.The issue is far from settled, as both groups continue to jockey for support both for and against the project. But at least one of them has pulled ahead: By Monday afternoon, the “Safer” campaign had managed to raise $145,000, outraising the opposing campaign by $60,000 in roughly a third of time.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• “His music, he speaks real facts. He talks about how he grew up. He wanted people to see what he went through, to show people they could change. He was a role model.” Fans showed up at Nipsey Hussle’s Marathon Clothing store in South Los Angeles to join an outpouring of grief over the death of the rapper and entrepreneur. [The New York Times]• Later in the day, at least 10 people were injured in a stampede at a vigil for the rapper. It was unclear what caused people to run. [The New York Times]• Newly released body-camera footage shows Vallejo police officers firing into the car where Willie McCoy appeared to have fallen asleep in a Taco Bell drive-through about 10 seconds after he first stirred. A lawyer for the 20-year-old’s family said they’re planning to sue. “Based on the videos, it looks like the officers violated basic safety principles and made no real efforts to preserve human life,” she said. [The New York Times]• And if you missed it, a legislative fight is looming about whether to make it easier to criminally prosecute officers who use deadly force. [The New York Times]• “The ball is rolling.” Paradise issued its first building permit since last year’s deadly Camp Fire nearly wiped the community off the map. [Merced Sun-Star]• Pacific Gas & Electric is trying to rebuild its leadership structure. But it’s been a bumpy road. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Mark Zuckerberg, in a post on Saturday, called on Congress to regulate Facebook. Here’s why. [The New York Times]• At last, it’s almost worth it for Angelenos to check out the burgeoning food scene in a cramped, dank city on the East Coast once known primarily for the Statue of Liberty and the Mafia, a columnist writes. [The Los Angeles Times]• How sovereign citizens in Southern California helped swindle $1 billion from a government they disavow. [The New York Times]• Why special psychiatric emergency rooms, pioneered in Alameda County, may be better for patients in the grips of a psychiatric episode — and more cost-effective. [Kaiser Health News]• What happens when you try to ride an e-scooter as far as its battery will take you? There’s no force field stopping you. [Gizmodo]Although Stanford’s nickname is “the farm,” Silicon Valley isn’t exactly known as an agricultural wonderland — at least, not anymore.But that’s where one man, C. Todd Kennedy, has quietly taken on a kind of fruit rescue mission, according to Atlas Obscura.He’s the co-founder of Arboreum Company, which sells rare and vintage fruit trees, according to an Atlas Obscura piece. Its website lists dozens of varieties of stone fruits, including 18 kinds of Asian plums with evocative names like “Broken Heart” (sold out) and “Flavor Queen.”As one of the state’s “premier fruit experts, collectors and growers,” the piece says, Mr. Kennedy has also donated genetic material from hundreds of varieties to natural repositories — which, experts said, has helped keep those fruits from disappearing forever.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Dana GoldsteinSAN JOSE, Calif. — Rizi Manzon lives in the heart of Silicon Valley, in a modest-looking neighborhood of garden apartments and one-story houses on small lots. His own home is five minutes from Apple’s headquarters in what is, by some measures, the most expensive housing market in the country. Average rent in Santa Clara County is over $3,500.If Mr. Manzon, a culinary arts teacher at a nearby high school, had to pay market rates for his one-bedroom apartment, housing costs would eat up 75 percent of his $65,000 salary, he estimated.Luckily for him, he pays just $1,450 per month.Mr. Manzon, 38, is getting this bargain only because his employer, the Santa Clara Unified School District, owns his apartment complex and rents to its teachers at below-market rates. It is an uncommon arrangement — employer as landlord — that is starting to catch on elsewhere as school employees say they cannot afford to live comfortably in regions awash in tech dollars.And it is just one of several radical solutions for struggling educators in the nation’s economic boom towns. From San Francisco to Seattle to Denver to Los Angeles, some are spending four hours per day commuting, or have relied on charitable funding for mortgage assistance. While several districts have tried to make it easier for teachers to live where they work, their efforts are not always welcomed by local homeowners, opening up new debates over gentrification and what obligations the expanding tech sector has to the cities that host its offices.The Santa Clara apartments are considered a model by school district officials in San Jose, the large city a few miles southeast. The San Jose Unified School District has its own plan: raze aging school buildings, send their students to new facilities, and turn that land into affordable rental housing for at least 300 teachers and school workers.But in a city that is rolling out the red carpet for Google employees — the City Council recently voted to approve a major land sale to the tech giant — the teacher housing idea has drawn a backlash.Some parents in Almaden Valley, a suburban-style enclave on the outskirts of San Jose, are not eager to see two of their schools, Leland High School and Bret Harte Middle School, relocated about two miles away in order to build affordable rental housing for educators.“They are both very, very high-end schools” with lots of parental involvement, said Greg Braley, a leader of the opposition to the district’s proposal and a resident of the neighborhood. “Honestly, the schools are so good, people pay a premium to live in this area.”Mr. Braley works in finance and sends his own 9-year-old daughter to private school, but said she may attend public school in the future. Rather than disrupting a high-achieving community, he argued, it would make more sense to provide teachers with a housing allowance of some kind — something the district says it cannot afford to do.Hundreds flocked to an October community meeting to vent their frustration with the district’s plan, and over 6,000 people have signed an online petition, started by Mr. Braley, against it. “Low-income housing doesn’t belong in Almaden,” one resident commented on the petition. “This would devalue home prices in the area significantly,” wrote another.The school district, with 30,000 students, is losing one out of every seven teachers each spring. Some high-need students, like those with disabilities, are being taught by long-term substitutes or contractors. Like many other districts across the country with teacher shortages, it has begun recruiting educators from the developing world.Starting salaries for teachers here range between $55,000 and $79,000. That kind of money does not go far in an area where the median home price is over $1 million, and the district cannot easily raise compensation to account for housing costs. Despite being one of the nation’s richest states, California’s  education spending, about $11,000 per student, was slightly below the national average in 2016. Land is the most valuable asset the district has.District-owned housing would have interested Jesse Escobar, 33, an academic counselor at a middle school in San Jose. He and his girlfriend, Shana Riehart, a high school teacher, were priced out of town and moved 25 miles away to Hayward, Calif. Ms. Riehart quit her job to take a position closer to their new home. Traffic means Mr. Escobar’s commute sometimes takes an hour and 45 minutes each way. He said it had been hurtful to hear parents oppose the housing plan for educators.“Instead of saying teachers, if you had said engineers from Google or doctors from Kaiser, would the tone have been different?” Mr. Escobar asked. “Families trust us with their kids from 8 to 3 every day. I don’t know why it wouldn’t be the case that they would trust us in their communities.”Supporters of the housing plan have a long fight ahead. On Election Day, a ballot initiative to approve a city bond that could have helped pay for the proposal fell just short of passing. The plan now needs the approval of the district board of education, and eventually, a property tax assessment would have to pass at the ballot box. It could be a yearslong process, and opponents warn it could cost hundreds of millions of dollars.Stephen McMahon, the district’s deputy superintendent, blamed much of the neighborhood opposition on the stigma against affordable housing.Standing outside of Leland High School, one of the campuses that could be torn down in the proposal, Mr. McMahon said, “They’re closing their eyes and seeing a 10-story apartment complex with people smoking pot on the doorsteps. That’s not at all what we discussed doing out here.”Mr. McMahon said that each of the proposed housing sites would match existing housing stock: high-rise apartments downtown; single-family houses in Almaden Valley. He acknowledged that the school district lacked expertise in real estate, but said partner organizations would be brought on to help.“This isn’t the work we want to do,” Mr. McMahon said. “We have to do the housing thing because not being able to get employees compromises everything we want to do with our instruction and learning.”Other school districts, including San Francisco, Los Angeles, and some in Colorado and North Carolina are trying similar solutions. In Santa Clara, the district-owned apartment where Mr. Manzon lives has a long waiting list of teachers. But even that is not a full solution.Mr. Manzon, a former chef, will have to leave his home in three years, because each resident is allowed to stay in the district apartments only seven years. He is considering leaving teaching — he has received higher-paying offers to work as an executive chef — or moving to Nevada, where much of his family has relocated.There, “my brother was able to purchase a home on a Honda mechanic’s salary,” he said.Teachers who can come up with at least half of a down payment can turn to Landed, a start-up that helps educators buy homes.Holly Gonzalez, 34, a kindergarten teacher in East San Jose, and her husband, Daniel, a school district I.T. specialist, were able to buy a three-bedroom apartment for $610,000 this summer with help from their parents and from Landed. When they sell the home, they will owe Landed 25 percent of any gain in its value. The company is financed partly by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, Mark Zuckerberg’s charitable arm.Ms. Gonzalez, who has two sons, said that she and her husband were grateful, but that they had given up a lot, like a backyard. “To be willing to pay what we paid for this? You have to be desperate,” she said.They remain anxious about their economic future, especially since San Jose’s land sale to Google, which the City Council approved in December over the shouts of anti-gentrification activists, and is expected to bring in 20,000 mostly high-income tech jobs.Gentrification, Ms. Gonzalez said, could push out even more low-income families in her district, and declining school enrollment could mean layoffs for teachers.Supporters of the Google deal, like Mayor Sam Liccardo of San Jose, say the company will help finance affordable housing. As part of the agreement, any new apartment buildings constructed near the campus will set aside a quarter of the units as affordable.Mr. Liccardo said it was unfortunate that anxiety about closing schools had gotten mixed up with the debate over cost of living in the city. But he projected that within a few years, some of the same parents who opposed San Jose Unified’s plan for teachers would grasp the importance of affordable housing.“When people see their own children can no longer afford to live in the community” as young adults, he said, “it will change.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)When he took office this year, Gov. Gavin Newsom inherited an expansive, consuming problem. The state doesn’t have enough housing, and what housing it does have is rapidly becoming too expensive for most people who live and work in the state. Legislators have tried to make a dent in various aspects of the crisis. Today, my colleague Jennifer Medina explores how one of Mr. Newsom’s efforts is playing out in a Southern California city. Not too long after he took office, Mr. Newsom, in his State of the State address, called out several cities he said were not doing their fair share to develop more affordable housing. Among them: Montebello, a historic middle class suburb just east of Los Angeles that was once referred to as a Mexican-American Beverly Hills.Just a short drive away from Downtown Los Angeles, Montebello has long attracted government employees and other white-collar workers eager to buy modest single-family homes — a kind of “promised land” for those looking to get out of the city. Today, three-bedroom homes can be found for around $500,000 — a relative bargain compared with much of Los Angeles. So it was, at least in some ways, a bit of an odd choice for the governor’s ire.State officials say the city has done little to keep up with the growing demand, failing to create a clear plan for how it will expand its housing stock. But since the governor’s speech, he’s tried to strike a more conciliatory tone, appearing with Mayor Jack Hadjinian of Montebello after a closed-door meeting with other local government leaders last month.“I’m not mad at him for calling us out,” Mr. Hadjinian said. “We see this as an opportunity.”Juan Rivera, a home-ownership counselor at Montebello Housing Development Corporation, said he had watched the prospects for first-time buyers become increasingly dire.“Affordable housing? There is none,” he said. “I don’t think it’s a unique problem to Montebello, but the opportunities to live here are just fewer and fewer.”But local developers and investors like Robert Tapia say it is the governor who needs to be more open to creative solutions. “He’s fundamentally not understanding how real estate gets done,” he said. “Where do we come up with the land? People keep holding on to their land, onto their properties — we have no control over ownership.”(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• After transforming online life by building Facebook as a platform for public sharing, Mark Zuckerberg said he planned to start shifting people toward private communications through Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger. (Read his full blog post here.) [The New York Times]• As Uber prepares to go public, meet Tony West, the man with the tough task of cleaning up the company’s legal messes. He’s armed with impressive credentials and, unrelatedly, he’s Senator Kamala Harris’s brother-in-law. [The New York Times]• Transcripts of the descriptions of the death of Stephon Clark given by the two officers who shot him, recorded hours after the shooting, were among of hundreds of pages of police documents released on Tuesday under a new police record transparency law. [The Sacramento Bee]• A crime lab scandal that rocked Senator Kamala Harris’s office when she was the district attorney in San Francisco is getting re-examined in light of her presidential run. [The Washington Post]• Los Angeles agreed to settle a contentious lawsuit over the property rights of homeless people. The settlement could make it more difficult to seize and destroy encampments on Skid Row. [The Los Angeles Times]• WarnerMedia is investigating the conduct of the chief executive of Warner Bros. after The Hollywood Reporter published a lengthy report saying that he had a sexual relationship with a British actress and then pushed for her to get parts in movies and TV shows. [The New York Times]• Thoroughbred racing has been suspended at Santa Anita Park after another horse — the 21st since Dec. 26 — died there. The spike in deaths spells trouble for the industry. [The New York Times]• “It didn’t even have a grocery store until Ralphs opened about 10 years ago.” Today, cranes dot the Downtown Los Angeles skyline as the city prepares to host the 2028 Summer Olympics. [The New York Times]•  LeBron James passed Michael Jordan on the N.B.A.’s all-time scorers’ list last night. The Lakers still lost to the Denver Nuggets. [The New York Times]• There was a big thunderstorm in Southern California on Tuesday night. Here are some wild photos and videos of the lightning. [Curbed Los Angeles]• In East Hollywood, the many worlds within L.A. bump up against one another but they don’t always mix. That changed a little when Lena Louie, the owner of Wah’s Golden Hen, the Cantonese takeout spot across the street, visited Sqirl, the avocado toast temple, and met Jessica Koslow. [The Los Angeles Times]When I was in grade school, my family went on a trip to the Central Coast and we took a nighttime tour of Hearst Castle. I remember being stunned by the hillside palace and its expansive, serene pool with the classical statues, gleaming in the moonlight.At the time, it didn’t occur to me that the famous home was also significant because it was designed by Julia Morgan, the first woman to receive an architect’s license in the state. It wouldn’t be until years later that I’d hear her name, in Berkeley, where she went to school and where I’d come to enjoy noting her buildings to myself as I walked past.Ms. Morgan was just eulogized in The Times as part of the “Overlooked” series. And that’s good. Because her buildings define California — whether you know her story or not.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byOnce, it was easy to be obscure. Technology has ended that.By Woodrow Hartzog and Evan SelingerDr. Hartzog is a professor of law and computer science. Dr. Selinger is a professor of philosophy. We are constantly exposed in public. Yet most of our actions will fade into obscurity. Do you, for example, remember the faces of strangers who stood in line with you the last time you bought medicine at a drugstore? Probably not. Thanks to limited memory and norms against staring, they probably don’t remember yours either. This is what it means to be obscure. And our failure to collectively value this idea shows where we’ve gone wrong in the debates over data and surveillance.Lawmakers and industry leaders are missing the big picture. They are stuck on traditional concepts like “transparency,” “consent” and “secrecy,” which leads to proposals that reinforce broken mechanisms like consenting to unreadable terms of service. They are operating under the dangerous illusion that there’s a clear distinction between what’s public and what’s private. Most people probably intuitively know that their most deeply held secrets are private while the things about them that are commonly known or widely broadcast  are not. But what about information about our everyday actions that is shared with some but not all? Obscurity bridges this privacy gap with the idea that the parts of our lives that are hard or unlikely to be found or understood are relatively safe. It is a combination of the privacy you have in public and the privacy you have in groups. Obscurity  is a barrier that can shield you from government, corporate and social snoops. And until lawmakers, corporate leaders and citizens embrace obscurity and move to protect it, your freedom and opportunities to flourish will be in jeopardy. The concept was first meaningfully articulated in a landmark 1989 Supreme Court decision, Department of Justice v. Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, which recognized a privacy interest in the “practical obscurity” of information that was technically available to the public but could be found only by spending an unrealistic amount of time and effort. After the concept was introduced, most lawmakers, judges and the tech industry promptly forgot about it. This has dulled the potential of obscurity as a rallying point for change and leaves society struggling to protect something in dire need of defining and defending.Understanding obscurity means paying attention to how space, time and people’s cognitive limitations make it difficult for others to surveil us or find out things about us.Consider space. The further away people are, the harder it is to see with the naked eye who they are and where they’re going. Usually, we are visible only to those nearby. But cellphone location data can reveal that same highly personal information to anyone with means and motivation. We should be disturbed that apps often collect location data simply because they can and that T-Mobile, Sprint and AT&T reportedly have illegally sold customers’ 911 location data to third parties. And we should be pleased that the  Supreme Court ruled last year in Carpenter vs. United States that, under the Fourth Amendment, cellphone records can’t be seized without a warrant.Consider time. Memories fade as time passes. But the internet has impeccable recall. That’s why we should applaud the senators who have proposed a bipartisan update to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act that would give parents and children an “eraser button” to remove a child’s data from platforms like Google and Facebook. It’s also why we should be skeptical of Mark Zuckerberg’s announcement that Facebook will become a more “privacy-focused platform” that emphasizes features like ephemeral, expiring information. Truly ephemeral communications are certainly obscure, but it’s unclear what information Facebook will scrub on the front end (for users) and the back end (from the company). The company’s history suggests we shouldn’t let our guard down. Obscurity is also a better way to understand Europe’s “right to be forgotten” law, which can’t make anyone forget anything, but can make the remnants of your awkward youth harder to find online.Finally, consider cognitive limitations. Facial recognition technology poses an immense danger to society because it can be used to overcome biological constraints on how many individuals anyone can recognize in real time. If its use continues to grow and the right regulations aren’t instituted, we might lose the ability to go out in public without being recognized by the police, our neighbors and corporations. Creating strong regulations for the technology is going to be an uphill battle, especially because it’s already become widespread, being deployed at airports to make boarding easier and adopted by schools to increase safety. It is even being used at summer camps so parents can automatically receive photos in which their children appear.Threats to our obscurity are growing because technology is making our personal information easy and cheap to aggregate, archive and interpret — with substantial growth in predictive analytics, too. To see what we mean, just look yourself up on the website MyLife and marvel at how much information has been cobbled together from different moments in your life for anyone to see at the click of a button. Even speaking in hushed tones to a friend at a crowded cafe might not be enough to protect your obscurity if cameras are someday equipped with lip-reading artificial intelligence software.Obscurity is vital to our well-being for several reasons. It gives us breathing room to go about our daily routines with little fear of being judged, sent unwanted ads, gossiped about or needlessly shamed.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]Obscurity makes meaningful and intimate relationships possible, ones that offer solidarity, loyalty and love. It allows us to choose with whom we want to share different kinds of information. It protects us from having everyone know the different roles we play in the different parts of our lives. We need to be able to play one role with our co-workers while revealing other parts of ourselves with friends and family. Indeed, obscurity is one reason we feel safe bonding with others over our shared vulnerabilities, our mutual hopes, dreams and fears.Obscurity enables us to develop and grow as individuals. It provides us collectively with spaces to explore new and controversial possibilities, to transgress taboos and ignore arbitrary rules. You might have thought you could skip church without anyone knowing, but churches are being marketed facial recognition systems that will make sure your absences are duly noted. It won’t stop there.Obscurity protects us from being pressured to be conventional. This buffer from a ubiquitous permanent record is especially important for the exploratory phase of youth. To develop as humans, people must be free to try things they might later regret. This is how we become better people. Without obscurity, we wouldn’t have the freedom to take risks, fail and dust ourselves off. We’d be stymied by the fear of being deemed failures by a system that never forgets.Finally, obscurity is crucial to democracy. Obscurity fosters civic participation and gives us the confidence to attend political protests and engage in political speech online without worrying about ending up on a government watch list. It’s why the American Civil Liberties Union worries about the government monitoring social media.Things can be private even if others can see them. And there is so much of our lives that industry and governments have yet to find. But in our status-obsessed culture, it can be hard to appreciate that the opposite of obscurity isn’t fame, but chillingly oppressive fear. Woodrow Hartzog is a professor of law and computer science at Northeastern University. Evan Selinger is a professor of philosophy at Rochester Institute of Technology.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a massacre at mosques in New Zealand, a Senate vote to defy President Trump, and the departure of two Facebook executives.At least 49 people were dead and dozens more injured today after shootings at two mosques in Christchurch in a terrorist attack that Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern called “an extraordinary and unprecedented act.” One man in his 20s was charged with murder. Here are the latest updates.The attacks occurred during Friday Prayer, and the authorities asked mosques across New Zealand to close. Two explosive devices were found attached to a vehicle that the police had stopped.The suspect: Shortly before the shooting, someone appearing to be the gunman posted links to a white nationalist manifesto online, including a link to a Facebook page where a live, 17-minute video of the assault was later broadcast. Here’s what we know so far about the suspect. President Trump promised a veto after senators voted 59-to-41 on Thursday to overturn his declaration of a national emergency, arguing that he had exceeded his powers in trying to build a border wall despite Congress’s objections.The details: Twelve Republicans joined the Democrats to overturn the emergency declaration. Here’s how every senator voted.What’s next: It’s unlikely that either the House or the Senate has enough votes to override a veto. But the actions in both chambers could bolster lawsuits contesting the emergency declaration.Yesterday: In a nonbinding resolution, the House voted 420-0 to demand that the Justice Department publicly release the full findings of the special counsel’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election.The captain of the Boeing 737 Max 8 that crashed on Sunday faced an emergency almost immediately after takeoff, requesting in a panicky voice to return after three minutes as the aircraft accelerated to abnormal speed.The account of air traffic communications involving the pilot, Yared Getachew, who had 8,000 hours of flying experience, provides far more detail about what was happening in the cockpit.How we know: A person who reviewed the communications shared the information with The Times, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the messages have not been publicly released.Related: After a similar crash in October, Boeing officials told American pilots’ unions that they planned to update the software for 737 Max jets by the end of the year. The carriers are still waiting for a fix.The University of Southern California was once snidely referred to as the “University of Spoiled Children,” but it began an extensive overhaul in the 1990s to become a top-tier school.That effort has been threatened by a series of corruption investigations, including this week’s revelation that the university is at the center of an admissions scandal involving federal charges of bribery and cheating.Closer look: The coaches charged, including some at U.S.C., are some of the most prominent in their fields.Column: The affluent have another advantage in gaining admission to many private colleges and universities: the capacity to pay four years of tuition, room and board — perhaps $300,000 — without financial aid. Our columnist explains. Frank Cali led the remnants of one of New York’s five Mafia families, the Gambinos, but he was, according to one law enforcement official, “the polar opposite of John Gotti,” one of his flashy predecessors. Despite his low profile, Mr. Cali met with a classic mob execution on Wednesday, shot outside his home on Staten Island. Two reporters  tell the tale. North Korean threat: The country is considering suspending negotiations over its nuclear arms program with the U.S., one of its senior diplomats said today. Vice Foreign Minister Choe Son-hui also said the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, would soon decide whether to resume nuclear and missile tests.Facebook departures: Two top executives, including the head of the WhatsApp messaging service, are leaving after disagreements with Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive.Volkswagen accusations: The Securities and Exchange Commission accused the automaker on Thursday of “massive fraud” and lying to investors as part of a diesel emissions scandal.Brexit vote: Parliament has voted to postpone Britain’s departure from the European Union but, in a rare victory for Prime Minister Theresa May, narrowly failed to wrest control of the process from her. It remains unclear how long the delay will be.Rebuff to gun industry: The Connecticut Supreme Court has cleared the way for a lawsuit against the companies that manufactured and sold the semiautomatic rifle used  in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012. Climate protest: Students in more than 100 countries are planning to skip school today to push for action against climate change. We looked at the roots of the demonstrations, which started with one teenager in Sweden.Snapshot: Above, snow-covered trees in the mountains of northern Japan. Tourists come from around Asia to see the “juhyo,” known in English as ice monsters, but scientists say they are increasingly threatened by warming temperatures. In memoriam: Birch Bayh, the liberal former senator from Indiana, was a driving force behind laws barring sex discrimination in education and guaranteeing 18-year-olds the right to vote. He died on Thursday at 91.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Modern Love: In this week’s column, a woman wonders, “How do you break up with someone you like being around but don’t see a future with?”Late-night comedy: Stephen Colbert noted the Senate vote to overturn President Trump’s emergency declaration: “I mean, the last time Trump lost a vote that badly, he was elected president!” What we’re reading: This piece in the Los Angeles Review of Books. Chris, your Morning Briefing writer, says, “The South is well-known for preserving its past, but in this essay, a native of Atlanta reflects on two road trips, taken more than 20 years apart, and how little he knew about the history of his hometown.”Cook: This Guinness pie is worthy of a celebration. Watch: Netflix’s “Dating Around” finds romantic tension in the unlikeliest of places: the blind date, Amanda Hess writes.Read: We collected eight books that expose the mania around college admissions. Go: The new Hudson Yards in Manhattan is the largest mixed-use private real estate venture in American history. Our architecture critic, Michael Kimmelman, calls it “a relic of dated 2000s thinking.”Smarter Living: If you’re aiming to help the environment with a “zero waste” lifestyle, a reporter who went plastic-free for a week has some advice. Listing his needs helped him focus, and he went to stores that allowed bulk purchases in his cloth bags or would load his choices into his containers or paper bags.And Mercury is in retrograde. For once, scientists and astrologers agree: You need not be alarmed.A reader asked this week to hear more about E. Barrett Prettyman, whose name is on the courthouse described in Wednesday’s Back Story. The courthouse is where Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, was sentenced.The Virginia-born Elijah Barrett Prettyman was a lawyer, professor and journalist before President Harry Truman nominated him to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He served from 1945 to 1962. From 1958 to 1960, he was chief judge.He was admired in judicial and governmental circles. Presidents Dwight Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy turned to him to resolve difficult legal issues. He overcame years of congressional resistance to effect changes in the D.C. court system.The U.S. Courthouse, home to the court he served on, was named for him in 1997, 16 years after his death.His son, E. Barrett Prettyman Jr., also had an illustrious legal career, playing a crucial backstage role in the Supreme Court’s unanimous school-desegregation decision.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford, James K. Williamson and Mark Josephson for the break from the news. Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about a family that profited from the opioid crisis.• “The Daily” publishes a weekly newsletter that gives readers an exclusive look at how the podcast comes together. • Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: What the “sans” of Comic Sans refers to (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Matt StevensGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Senator Kamala Harris declared her candidacy for president last Monday — and over the weekend, she hit the campaign trail in earnest.She held her first public appearance on Friday at a South Carolina gala. Then, on Sunday, she held a rally in her hometown, Oakland; today, she’s headed to Iowa for a town hall.“We are at an inflection point in the history of our world,” she said at the Sunday rally, the official start to her campaign. “We are at an inflection point in the history of our nation. We are here because the American dream and our American democracy are under attack and on the line like never before. And we are here at this moment in time because we must answer a fundamental question: Who are we? Who are we as Americans?”My colleague Astead Herndon has been following and writing about Ms. Harris and her presidential bid. He was in Columbia, S.C., with her on Friday. So I asked him to share some of his impressions and analysis. Here’s what he had to tell us:Astead: South Carolina, which votes fourth in the Democratic primary and is particularly important because of its high percentage of black voters, has played host to several likely presidential hopefuls in recent days, including Ms. Harris’s Senate colleagues Cory Booker of New Jersey and Bernie Sanders of Vermont.The difference for Ms. Harris? She has been able to lean on her enormous network as a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc., the country’s oldest black sorority. On Friday, she was the noted guest at the group’s annual Pink Ice Gala, which afforded her an audience of thousands of black South Carolinians at the ticketed event.“I’m so honored to celebrate with my sorors,” she said. “We stand on the shoulders of women who were leaders, who 111 years ago said to us that we must honor sisterhood and service.”The room was a preview of the electorate that could help slingshot her to victory. Older black residents, all dressed in black tie for the event, rushed the stage to get a photo with the presidential candidate, or to stream her speech on their social media channels. Ms. Harris did not mention her presidential candidacy in the short remarks, but the crowd knew this was the beginning of a long-term courtship.In a short gathering with reporters after, Ms. Harris said it was important to her to attend the event, to highlight the importance of black voters — and particularly black female voters — but also to share how much the sorority means to her.“My mother used to say, ‘You may be the first to do a lot of things, but make sure you’re not the last,’” Ms. Harris said. “It’s about bringing people with you.”(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• In case you missed it: The government shut down is over — for now. [The New York Times] And Roger Stone, a longtime adviser to President Trump, was indicted. [The New York Times]• Two years after Mr. Trump signed orders to hire 15,000 new border agents and immigration officers, the administration has spent tens of millions of dollars in the effort — but has thousands more vacancies than when it began. [The Los Angeles Times]• California farmers are facing a squeeze on their livelihoods. There’s a labor shortage, a new state overtime-pay law and the Trump administration’s rhetoric over immigration. And it could all lead to higher prices up at the grocery store. [USA Today]• In a sign that Gov. Gavin Newsom might actually be treating affordable housing like a crisis, the state has sued the city of Huntington Beach, accusing it of willfully refusing to comply with state housing law. [The Orange County Register]• A California Highway Patrol officer leading the inquiry into a series of stabbings at a neo-Nazi rally targeted left-wing activists and victims rather than investigating armed white supremacists. [The Guardian]• In a five-paragraph post, Willie Brown, the former mayor of San Francisco, addressed the intrigue surrounding his having dated Ms. Harris. The post takes an odd turn around Paragraph 4. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, plans to integrate the social network’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger. [The New York Times]• Logan Green, the chief executive of the ride-hailing service Lyft, may have to step into a more public role as his company and Uber race to go public. [The New York Times]• The Oakland A’s president, Dave Kaval, has unveiled plans for a gondola that would ferry fans from BART to the team’s proposed stadium at Howard Terminal. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Justin Rose won the Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines, protecting his status as the world’s top-ranked golfer. [The New York Times]• Are we watching the end of the monarch butterfly? Citizen scientists recently gathered in Bolinas to count them and the results were alarming. [New York Times Opinion]“It’s possible to have a great career without freezing every day,” the banner across a new San Diego marketing campaign says.Click.As The San Diego Union-Tribune has reported, an economic development group there is trying to bait millennials living in cold places to come to San Diego and work in science and technology by leaning on the city’s biggest asset.The campaign features a video, which opens by showing unrelenting snow and rain, which then gives way to a picturesque San Diego sunset.The campaign’s title? Just Say No to Winter.Consider me baited.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin, Melina Delkic and Elijah Walker(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. “This is not a manufactured crisis. This is truly an emergency.”Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, urged Congress to confront what she called a “humanitarian catastrophe” on the southern border by supporting President Trump’s border wall, though it is not clear how a wall would alter the flow of asylum seekers or address their needs.She was also defiant in the face of criticism of how the administration treats migrant families at the border, especially separating families.Separately, in a setback for Mr. Trump, the U.S. trade deficit in goods ballooned to $891.3 billion in 2018, its highest level in history. The deficit expanded mainly because of the strong U.S. economy, which allowed Americans to purchase more from abroad, and the strong dollar, which raised the international prices of U.S. exports._____2. Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, said that she had been raped by a superior officer while serving.She made the disclosure at a Senate committee hearing about preventing sexual assault in the military, above, saying that she had nearly left the service. “I thought I was strong, but felt powerless,” she said. She stayed, she said, to be a voice for women: “It’s personal from two perspectives — as a commander who led my airmen into combat and as a survivor of rape and betrayal.”Also on Capitol Hill, House Democrats were accusing their party’s leaders of treating Representative Ilhan Omar unfairly. They ultimately put off a vote on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism, as critics said Ms. Omar was unfairly singled out._____3. The Supreme Court is getting an education in rap.Hip-hop stars including Meek Mill, above, Fat Joe and 21 Savage filed a brief urging the court to hear the appeal of a Pittsburgh rapper challenging his conviction. The artist, Jamal Knox, who raps under the name Mayhem Mal, was sent to prison for two years for threatening police officers in his song.“A person unfamiliar with what today is the nation’s most dominant musical genre or one who hears music through the auditory lens of older genres such as jazz, country or symphony,” they wrote, “may mistakenly interpret a rap song as a true threat of violence.”_____4. Mark Zuckerberg said he would shift Facebook’s platforms to emphasize private, encrypted communication, a major turn from public sharing.After grappling with years of scandal over data privacy, the Facebook founder and chief executive said he wanted to create systems that would offer users a “digital living room” where they can expect their discussions to be fully private.In other tech news, Tesla is shutting down most of its dealerships — just three months after a sprint to open new locations._____5. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s former top adviser and close friend tried to defuse a political scandal gripping Canada.In testimony before a parliamentary committee, the adviser, Gerald Butts, pictured above, denied that any improper pressure was put on the former justice minister to settle a criminal case. He said the government wanted to consider a negotiated settlement for a company accused of bribery because thousands of Canadian jobs were at stake.Mr. Butts’s testimony may help mitigate the crisis, which has threatened the prime minister’s political future. We broke down how Mr. Trudeau became ensnared._____6. The chef Mario Batali has surrendered his stake in all of his restaurants.Of all the famous chefs and restaurateurs accused of sexual harassment, Mr. Batali is the first to pay such a price.The Bastianich family, which has partnered with Mr. Batali for 20 years, and other partners are regrouping to form a new company. Mr. Batali is also selling his shares in Eataly, the global chain of luxury Italian supermarkets.In other #MeToo developments, R. Kelly gave his first interview since being charged with sexual abuse, in which he screamed, cursed and pleaded to the camera. He now is heading back to jail for not paying child support._____7. Good news and bad news in the fight to combat overprescription of opioid painkillers: Prescriptions fell. Chronic pain patients have suffered.In a letter to be sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 300 medical experts, including three former White House drug czars, say that federal guidelines aimed at curbing addiction are harming pain patients who find relief only through high doses of opioids. Above, a doctor and a pain patient in Nebraska in 2016.They say the guidelines are being used as cover by insurers to deny reimbursement and by doctors to turn patients away, leaving them in withdrawal and in misery, some to the point of suicide._____8. Thousands of runners, wrestlers, pictured above, soccer players and fitness fanatics exercise every evening on the beaches and streets of Senegal’s capital, where exercise is a way of life.With every breath, they inhale increasingly dangerous air. Dakar’s air exceeds more than five times the limits set by the World Health Organization for levels of damaging airborne particulate. One official estimated that a third of the population has some kind of lung ailment.“Sometimes it feels like I’m about to get choked,” one champion swimmer said._____9. “A reverie, a meditation, a therapeutic retreat, a musicians’ playground.”Our music critic offers a glowing review of Solange’s new album, “When I Get Home.” The album “is built for gentle, repeated immersion, not instant gratification,” he writes, one example of Solange’s step away from ordinary pop expectations.We also have a review of the latest installment of “Captain Marvel,” starring Brie Larson as the spacefaring comic-book superhero. It is the 21st entry in the interconnected Marvel movie franchise since it began in 2008, but the first to focus principally on a woman._____10. Finally, today is the first day of Lent for many Christians around the world.But before giving something up, residents in Hamtramck, Mich., have long celebrated Fat Tuesday with paczki, Polish pastries. Pronounced “PAWN-chkee,” the doughy pastries are filled with custard or fruit. Lines form well before sunrise at bakeries around the city. Above, the New Martha Washington Bakery on Tuesday.Residents see parallels in the stories of the Polish immigrants who came decades ago and those of the newer arrivals from the Middle East and Asia.“I haven’t seen Hamtramck’s identity really change in 100 years,” the mayor said. “We’re an immigrant city.”Have a sweet night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kenneth ChangJean Bourgain, a mathematician who conquered difficult problems prolifically across a wide swath of fields, died on Dec. 22 at a hospital in Bonheiden, Belgium. He was 64.The Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., where Dr. Bourgain was a professor, said the cause was pancreatic cancer.Dr. Bourgain’s honors included a Fields Medal in 1994, perhaps the most prestigious prize in mathematics, and the 2017 Breakthrough Prize, which was accompanied by $3 million. That prize, whose sponsors include Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, and Sergey Brin, a founder of Google, attempts to bring popular attention to researchers at the cutting edge of science and mathematics.Dr. Bourgain wrote or co-wrote more than 500 papers, far more than most professional mathematicians.“He was a problem solver unequaled,” Peter C. Sarnak, a colleague of Dr. Bourgain’s at the institute, said in an interview.Dr. Sarnak said that Bourgain started out in an esoteric corner of mathematics with extremely difficult problems. “He just came in and started solving one problem after the other in that subject,” he said. “So he made his name there, became very famous, winning all sorts of young-up-and-coming-star prizes. But then he broadened out.”Dr. Bourgain found that tools he had developed could also be applied to other fields of mathematics, including partial differential equations, computer science, quantum mechanics and dynamical systems, making progress on formidable problems that had stymied experts in those areas.“There would be some big mountain in front of you,” Dr. Sarnak said, “and he would ascend halfway up, occasionally all the way up. People couldn’t understand how he got all the way up. It would take often months or years for people to understand his proofs. He liked the idea that he was way ahead and people were catching up to him all the time. He would open these doors.”Some of Dr. Bourgain’s recent work included a “decoupling theorem” — a very abstract generalization of the Pythagorean theorem applied to oscillating waves, like light or radio waves. While Pythagoras merely showed how the length of the two shorter sides of a right triangle are related to the longer hypotenuse, the decoupling theorem proved by Dr. Bourgain and Ciprian Demeter, of Indiana University, showed similar relationships in the superposition of waves, when the individual oscillations are added together.The Belgian government bestowed the title of baron on Dr. Bourgain in 2015. He designed a coat of arms for himself with the inscription “In spem contra spem,” or “In hope against hope.”Jean Bourgain was born on Feb. 28, 1954, in Ostend, Belgium. After receiving a doctorate from the Free University of Brussels in 1977, he became a professor at the university in 1981.In 1985, he began splitting time between the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and the Institut des Hautes Études Scientifiques in Paris. He was also a professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and the California Institute of Technology before moving to the Institute for Advanced Study in 1994.Dr. Bourgain worked in the area of mathematics known as analysis, which often studies inequalities, with the aim of trying to simplify problems instead of coming up with exact solutions. “The art of analysis is not to lose the important information,” Vitali Milman, a mathematician at Tel-Aviv University in Israel, said in a phone interview.Dr. Milman recalled that he and Dr. Bourgain were once discussing a math problem and Dr. Bourgain told him that he had always kept two problems in mind: “One which I want to solve and another which I can solve.”When Dr. Bourgain was stuck on the problem he was working on, Dr. Milman said, he would work through the other one — which he knew how to work through — to reassure himself that he had not become “impotent in mathematics.”What was amazing, Dr. Milman said, was that Dr. Bourgain could intuit that a problem was solvable: “He was ready to do it, before he actually knew how to do it.”Dr. Bourgain was less comfortable in the classroom. While teaching a course at Illinois, he once asked Dr. Milman to join him on campus to provide emotional support. Before a lecture Dr. Bourgain was to give, Dr. Milman noticed him looking at a piece of paper. Dr. Milman asked if he was doing last-minute preparations. No, Dr. Bourgain replied; he was calculating what he would earn for holding the class.“When I see the number,” he told Dr. Milman, “I feel at ease going to the lecture.”Dr. Bourgain’s cancer was diagnosed in late 2014, but he continued his math research.Larry Guth, a mathematician at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, recalled coming across the decoupling theorem by Dr. Bourgain and Dr. Demeter. Their proof went against the expectations of people in the field. “That made me very curious about it,” Dr. Guth said in an interview.But Dr. Guth was hesitant to contact Dr. Bourgain, who had undergone cancer surgery a few months earlier. Then he checked an online archive of mathematics papers and found that Dr. Bourgain had posted several new papers since his operation.Dr. Guth wrote to Dr. Bourgain and Dr. Demeter, and they began discussing how to extend the work. A couple of weeks later, Dr. Guth was visiting Princeton and went to visit Dr. Bourgain, who then explained how to solve the problem they had been discussing. “It filled 10 blackboards,” Dr. Guth said.The resulting paper used the superposition of waves to settle a question about integers — a problem that had been intractable for more than 80 years.Dr. Bourgain is survived by his wife, Mei-Chu Chang; a son, Eric; and a sister, Claire Bourgain.A year ago, the American Mathematical Society honored Dr. Bourgain with its Steele Prize for lifetime achievement, but he was not done.In November, he was finishing a few final projects. Dr. Milman said a journal he edits will publish one of Dr. Bourgain’s final papers next month.A picture caption with an earlier version of this obituary misspelled the given name of one of the men pictured with Dr. Bourgain. He is Sundar Pichai, not Sunda.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byIn a country still struggling with the aftermath of racist policies, starting a business is also a way for Indigenous people to fight stereotypes.By Isabella KwaiWant Australian news with a global perspective? Sign up here for the weekly Australia Letter.MELBOURNE, Australia — It was a disempowering experience at a large corporate organization that prompted Morgan Coleman to become an entrepreneur.Initially, he was proud to work there. But soon, as one of the few Indigenous employees, he felt patronized and unwelcome by some, and worried that his manager resented him because of his Torres Strait Islander background.Now, as part of a growing number of Indigenous Australians finding success in the entrepreneurial world even as the rate of non-Indigenous business ownership has fallen, he feels his future rides solely on his merit. “Whether I succeed or not, it’s entirely up to me,” Mr. Coleman, 28, said in a recent interview at the Melbourne offices of Vets on Call, the app he left his corporate job to start. “The market doesn’t care if you’re Indigenous or not.” The number of Indigenous Australians operating and owning businesses grew by an estimated 30 percent between 2011 and 2016, according to a 2018 paper from Australian National University. And given that the Indigenous population is younger than the country’s over all — with a median age of about 23 — Indigenous entrepreneurs say they find business ownership both alluring and empowering. That is particularly meaningful in a country that still struggles with the aftermath of racist policies that forcibly separated Indigenous children from their parents, refused Indigenous people the rights to their own land and kept them from voting. For many whose lives have been touched by trauma from these policies, entrepreneurship is not only a pathway toward building wealth — it is also an effort to combat stereotypes.“We’re not just good sports people — we’re good science people, we’re tech people,” said Marsha Uppill, 45, an Adnyamathanha woman who founded the company Arranyinha. Sharing its title with her birth name in her Aboriginal people’s language, her company is developing a tool that will help bridge cultural and other gaps between Western businesses and local and national Aboriginal communities.For Mr. Coleman, whose Indigenous father was sent away during his childhood in the era of family separation, the stereotypes can cut both ways. His light skin has made him the subject of scorn at times from both white and Indigenous Australians, he said. Although the rate of Indigenous business ownership still lags behind non-Indigenous ventures, in recent years the uptake in those wanting to start their own ventures has been significant, according to Indigenous Business Australia, a government agency that provides support and loans for homeownership and business ventures. These days, the agency approves about four times as many loans as it did six years ago, and most are given to first-time start-ups, said Wally Tallis, its deputy chief executive.“Our demand is outstripping our ability to service our customers,” he said.Australia’s government is also encouraging Indigenous entrepreneurship. In 2015, it introduced targets for awarding contracts to Indigenous businesses, and last year it unveiled new financial support, on top of an Indigenous Entrepreneurs Fund offering 90 million Australian dollars, or about $65 million, in assistance. State government agencies are also chipping in.That backing has been a lifeline for entrepreneurs like Ms. Uppill, who won a local government grant that helped her set up her business structure. “It’s been fantastic to have that support,” she said.But others say that having to meet the criteria is slowing them down. Mr. Coleman, who grew up in regional Victoria, found that he was not eligible for government grants because he did not live in a remote area and had not been denied a loan from mainstream banks. He was also excluded from some grants because his business is not directly aimed at Indigenous communities. So he has funded Vets on Call with his own assets instead. He has yet to make a profit, though the app is growing. And many do not have assets or a financial safety net. “They haven’t got that intergenerational wealth like the Bill Gates or the Mark Zuckerbergs,” said Dean Foley, 30, a Kamilaroi who founded Barayamal, a start-up accelerator for Indigenous entrepreneurs. Still, that has not stopped Indigenous Australians from pitching, designing and brainstorming, he said. “It’s called sweat equity. You just have to work hard.” It is that type of ethic that drives Ms. Uppill, whose mother, a member of what came to be known as the Stolen Generations, was taken from her home in the South Australian Flinders Ranges when she was 7. Ms. Uppill, who did not deeply understand her Adnyamathanha heritage until she revisited her home nation as a teenager, said she had not seen herself as an entrepreneur early on. But she was struck by the mind-set of her elders. “Aboriginal people have always been entrepreneurs,” she said of an 80,000-year history in which her people have had to adapt to changing times. “That’s what we are — that’s how we survived.” Similarly, Mr. Coleman had never worked in the tech field before starting Vets on Call, which allows pet owners to book home visits from veterinarians.And Indigenous cultural values are also at the heart of ventures like Faebella, a luxury activewear start-up developed by Alisha Geary, 24, which features authentic Indigenous art designs. Ms. Geary, who is half Aboriginal and half Torres Strait Islander, has vowed to ensure that the artists are paid well for their work. Her company’s first sets of designs sold out within days, she said. “This is going to help my business and therefore my family and community.” It’s the type of result Mr. Coleman said was essential to help show that Indigenous people can succeed at the highest level. “You can’t just succeed — you have to be seen to succeed,” he said.After a year of putting in his own sweat equity, Mr. Coleman is looking forward to taking three days off for his 29th birthday next month. But with app redesigns and marketing events coming up, the break will be brief. “Just because society doesn’t expect much from Indigenous people doesn’t mean we don’t expect from ourselves,” he said. Being Indigenous is an advantage, he added. “We’re very strong willed,” he said.Jenina Ibañez contributed research.Follow Isabella Kwai on Twitter: @bellakwaiWant more Australia coverage and discussion? Join us in our Facebook group, sign up for the weekly Australia Letter and start your day with the Australian Morning Briefing.Isabella Kwai covers news and the occasional slice of life for the Australian bureau. She is based in Sydney.  @bellakwai Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Damien CaveSYDNEY, Australia — What if live-streaming required a government permit, and videos could only be broadcast online after a seven-second delay?What if Facebook, YouTube and Twitter were treated like traditional publishers, expected to vet every post, comment and image before they reached the public? Or like Boeing or Toyota, held responsible for the safety of their products and the harm they cause?Imagine what the internet would look like if tech executives could be jailed for failing to censor hate and violence.These are the kinds of proposals under discussion in Australia and New Zealand as politicians in both nations move to address popular outrage over the massacre this month of 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand. The gunman, believed to be an Australian white nationalist, distributed a manifesto online before streaming part of the mass shootings on Facebook.If the two countries move ahead, it could be a watershed moment for the era of global social media. No established democracies have ever come as close to applying such sweeping restrictions on online communication, and the demand for change has both harnessed and amplified rising global frustration with an industry that is still almost entirely shaped by American law and Silicon Valley’s libertarian norms.“Big social media companies have a responsibility to take every possible action to ensure their technology products are not exploited by murderous terrorists,” Scott Morrison, Australia’s prime minister, said Saturday. “It should not just be a matter of just doing the right thing. It should be the law.”The push for government intervention — with a bill to be introduced in Australia this week — reflects a surge of anger in countries more open to restrictions on speech than in the United States, and growing impatience with distant companies seen as more worried about their business models than local concerns.There are precedents for the kinds of regulations under consideration. At one end of the spectrum is China, where the world’s most sophisticated system of internet censorship stifles almost all political debate along with hate speech and pornography — but without preventing the rise of homegrown tech companies making sizable profits.No one in Australia or New Zealand is suggesting that should be the model. But the other end of the spectrum — the 24/7 bazaar of instant user-generated content — also looks increasingly unacceptable to people in this part of the world.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand argues that there must be a middle ground, and that some kind of international consensus is needed to keep the platforms from limiting public protection only to certain countries.“Ultimately, we can all promote good rules locally, but these platforms are global,” she said Thursday.Even in the United States, frustration has been building as studies show that social media’s algorithms and design push people further into extremism even as the platforms are protected by the Communications Decency Act, which shields them from liability for the content they host.Some social media companies are starting to say they are willing to accept more oversight and guidance.In an op-ed in The Washington Post on Saturday, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, called for government help with setting ground rules for harmful online content, election integrity, privacy and data portability.“It’s impossible to remove all harmful content from the internet, but when people use dozens of different sharing services — all with their own policies and processes — we need a more standardized approach,” he wrote.At the same time, Facebook and the other major platforms insist they are doing everything they can on their own with a mix of artificial intelligence and moderators.Google, the parent company of YouTube — which declined to comment on the proposals in Australia and New Zealand — has hired 10,000 reviewers to flag controversial content for removal. Facebook, too, has said it will hire tens of thousands more employees to deal with finding and removing content that violates its rules.Those rules may be getting tougher. On Wednesday, Facebook announced that it would ban white nationalist content because “white nationalism and separatism cannot be meaningfully separated from white supremacy and organized hate groups.”But critics say it’s too little, too late.Facebook has “been on notice for some time that their policies and enforcement in this area were ineffective,” David Shanks, New Zealand’s chief censor, said in an email on Sunday. Since the mosque killings in Christchurch, Mr. Shanks has made it a crime to possess or distribute the video of the attack and the suspect’s manifesto.Experts say social media companies still take as a given that users should be allowed to post material without advance vetting. Neither the communications laws that govern broadcast nor the ratings systems applied to movies and video games affect social media, leaving a frictionless, ad-driven business model built to encourage as much content creation (and consumption) as possible.From a business perspective, the system works. On YouTube, 500 hours of video are uploaded every minute. In 2016, Facebook said viewers watched 100 million hours of video every day, while Twitter handles 500 million tweets a day, or nearly 6,000 every second.“The more speech there is on these platforms, the more money they can make,” said Rebecca Lewis, a doctoral student at Stanford and researcher at Data & Society who has studied radicalization patterns on YouTube. “More speech is more profit.”Europe is already trying to rein in the free-for-all. On Tuesday, the European Parliament passed a law that will make companies liable for uploaded content that violates copyright. It follows a tough privacy law, the General Data Protection Regulation, and an online hate speech law in Germany, the Network Enforcement Act, both of which took effect last year.The laws represent a significant setback for social media behemoths that have long argued that their platforms should be treated as neutral gathering places rather than arbiters of content.[For more Australia news with global context, get the Australia Letter in your inbox.]The hate speech law in particular is being closely studied in New Zealand and Australia.It tries to hold platforms liable for not deleting content that is “evidently illegal” in Germany, including child pornography and Nazi propaganda and memorabilia. Companies that systematically fail to remove illegal content within 24 hours face fines of up to 50 million euros, or around $56 million.Australian officials said Saturday that they were also planning hefty fines.And yet, it is far from clear that stiffer penalties alone are the solution.One problem, according to experts, is that banned posts, photos and videos continue to linger online. The mix of human moderation and artificial intelligence that platforms have deployed thus far has not been enough to monitor and drain the swamp of toxic content.“The automation is just not as advanced as these governments hope they are,” said Robyn Caplan, a researcher at Data & Society and a doctoral candidate at Rutgers University.“It’s a mistake,” she added, “to call these things ‘artificial intelligence,’ because it makes us think they are a lot smarter than they are.”At the same time, legitimate expressions of opinion, including a satirical magazine, have been deleted because of the law.“We have to be incredibly careful and nuanced when we draw these lines,” Ms. Caplan said.Even the criticism of live-streaming — which Facebook has said it is taking seriously — needs to be carefully considered, she added, because “there’s a lot of good coming out of live-streaming,” including transparency and scrutiny of the police.Officials in Australia and New Zealand are trying to work through these issues. After meeting last week with executives from Facebook, Google and Twitter, Australian lawmakers said Saturday that the new bill would make it a criminal offense punishable by three years in prison for social media platforms not to “remove abhorrent violent material expeditiously.”They made it clear that the tech world’s self-image of exceptionalism needed to end.“Mainstream media that broadcast such material would be putting their license at risk, and there is no reason why social media platforms should be treated any differently,” Attorney General Christian Porter said.John Edwards, New Zealand’s privacy commissioner, agreed but pointed to a different example: the Boeing 737 Max plane that has been grounded worldwide after two crashes believed to be tied to a software problem.“I would say Facebook’s ability to moderate harmful content on its live-streaming service represents a software problem that means the service should be suspended,” he said. “I think that’s just the right thing to do.”Charlotte Graham-McLay contributed reporting from Wellington, New Zealand, and Mike Isaac and Daisuke Wakabayashi from San Francisco.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Dana GoldsteinWhen 30,000 Los Angeles teachers went on strike on Monday, prominent Democrats — and potential presidential candidates — lined up to give their blessings.Senator Kamala Harris of California said she was “standing in solidarity” with teachers, who are demanding higher pay, smaller classes and more support staff.“I’m with teachers all the way,” Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts said on Twitter.Senators Cory Booker, Sherrod Brown, Kirsten Gillibrand and Bernie Sanders all shared similar sentiments about a strike that has drawn broad public support but disrupted the routines of half a million, mostly low-income children.In 2019, after a year of teacher walkouts across the country, it is practically impossible for a national Democrat to profess anything short of full-throated support for picketing educators. But many of them this week steered clear of the most contentious underlying cause of the strike: the teacher union’s opposition to the growth of charter schools, and the union’s claim that district officials — who are largely Democrats — favor charter schools over traditional ones.The unified cheers from Democrats belie deep and long-running rifts in the party over what public education should look like, at a time when the party is debating its direction. Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, likened the Los Angeles strike to “a gladiator fight” between two factions.On one side are those who have hewed to President Barack Obama’s centrist position on schools: supporting high-performing charters, which are publicly funded but privately managed, while putting pressure on teachers’ unions to raise student achievement and give up some of their traditional seniority protections.On the other side is organized labor, which has resisted the growth of the mostly nonunion charter sector. Union leaders say charters take students and public dollars from traditional neighborhood schools.But as democratic socialism, and sympathy for unions, is on the rise among young Democrats, the Obama-era view that charters create more competition and better choices for families no longer rules the party.Over the past year, teacher walkouts, including six in conservative and swing states, have captured the public’s attention. The movement has “reshaped the discussion within the Democratic Party nationally,” said Alex Caputo-Pearl, the firebrand president of United Teachers Los Angeles, the union that is currently on strike. “Do we need to back away from what corporate Democrats have been promoting for a long time, which is charter schools and privatization?”The debate between school-choice supporters and teachers’ unions goes back more than a decade. During the 2008 presidential primary between Mr. Obama and Hillary Clinton, Mr. Obama was the candidate of charters and teacher accountability, while Mrs. Clinton was more aligned with the unions. On one occasion, Mr. Obama was even booed by an audience of union educators, because he spoke in support of performance pay.As recently as last month, as talk of a strike in Los Angeles intensified, Mr. Obama’s first secretary of education, Arne Duncan, argued in an op-ed that a walkout would be misguided.But other Democrats who have championed school choice sided with the striking teachers this week, focusing on the two issues that have been a constant chorus in a year of protests: school funding and teacher pay.“Teachers play an extraordinary role in the lives of our children, and for too long our country has not given them the respect & support they deserve,” Senator Booker, the Democrat from New Jersey, said on Twitter on Wednesday. “I stand with our teachers — our country must increase investment in our schools & educators.”As mayor of Newark, Mr. Booker worked to expand charter networks, building relationships with philanthropists, like Mark Zuckerberg, who fund charters.“Ten years ago when I talked about school choice, I was literally tarred and feathered,” Mr. Booker said at the Democratic National Convention in 2008. “I was literally brought into a broom closet by a union and told I would never win office if I kept talking about charters.”Jeff Giertz, a spokesman for Mr. Booker, declined to address the senator’s record on charter schools or teachers’ unions, but said the senator had long supported efforts to increase pay and support for educators.More than a quarter of public school students in Los Angeles attend the city’s charter schools, according to the National Alliance for Public Charter Schools. School choice advocates expressed frustration that charters — which are outside the scope of the Los Angeles teachers’ contract — had become central to the strike, calling the subject a distraction from issues like rising pension and health care costs.Nick Melvoin, vice president of the Los Angeles Board of Education and a Democratic ally of the charter movement, said about a third of every dollar spent in the district was devoted to health care and pensions. Requiring teachers to pay a premium for insurance, or asking future educators to work longer before earning certain retirement benefits, could help free up money for higher salaries, smaller classes and other union demands, he argued.The union has resisted efforts to change how benefits are structured or paid for, he said.Both sides agree that it will most likely take the intervention of the California governor, Gavin Newsom, or Mayor Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles, both union allies, to end the strike, perhaps by ponying up more funds for union priorities or the district’s budget.Negotiations between the district and the union came to a complete halt late last week. Mr. Garcetti persuaded the two sides to meet at City Hall on Thursday and “stay at the table” until an agreement could be reached. With the mayor’s office acting as a mediator, the negotiations went from noon until midnight Thursday and continued Friday.A deal between them won’t settle the long-simmering debate in the Democratic Party, either in California or nationally, about school choice — or change the reality that at the moment, teachers’ unions are ascendant, while charter school supporters seem to be losing ground.In the meantime, district and union leaders in Los Angeles continue to use the strike’s spotlight to pitch competing visions for schools.Though Mr. Melvoin believes the union’s leadership has been “particularly recalcitrant,” he said he was encouraged to see the excitement on the picket lines from teachers and community members who support public education — even if he disagrees with them on the details.“It has been inspiring,” he said.Jennifer Medina contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — Facebook identified two disinformation campaigns originating from Russia — including one tied to an agency controlled by the Kremlin — that were targeted at users in Europe and Central Asia. The company said on Thursday it had deleted nearly 500 pages and accounts that had posted the misleading messages.Many of the pages were discovered to be linked to employees of Sputnik, an agency controlled by the Russian government that was established to spread reports and information sympathetic to Russia. It used independent news pages on topics like weather, travel and sports to mask its efforts, Facebook said.The company has been under pressure to more aggressively address the spread of misinformation, and to counter manipulation on its social network that is aimed at stirring division and discord, ever since it became evident that Russia used it to target groups of voters, sow division and spread false information in order to sway the 2016 presidential election. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, has said the detection of suspicious activity is a top priority.But on a platform of two billion users, disinformation campaigns are hard to detect, and Facebook remains a gathering ground for groups eager to spread disinformation to the widest audience possible.The activity revealed by Facebook shows how Kremlin-linked groups continue to use the social network to spread misleading materials around the world. Several of the countries targeted share a border with Russia.“We are constantly working to detect and stop this type of activity because we don’t want our services to be used to manipulate people,” Nathaniel Gleicher, head of cybersecurity policy at Facebook, said in a blog post.The discovery provides another glimpse of the manipulative tactics used by groups to promote their articles, videos, groups and other content on Facebook. Fake accounts were created in different countries with the sole purpose of sharing content from Sputnik.Facebook said one of the campaigns had targeted people in 13 countries in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. Facebook deleted 289 pages and 75 accounts linked to that effort, which also spent about $135,000 on Facebook advertising from 2013 to this month.About 790,000 users followed one or more of the pages, and up to 1,200 people expressed interest in attending one of the roughly 190 events organized by those behind the fake pages. Facebook couldn’t say whether any of the events had taken place.The company said the misleading content aimed to influence people in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Romania, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.Facebook said it had shared information about the investigation with United States authorities, Congress, other technology companies and policymakers in the targeted countries.Ben Nimmo, a research fellow at the Atlantic Council, a Washington think tank that analyzes misinformation online, said Facebook’s decision to block Sputnik-linked accounts was significant because of the agency’s direct ties to the Kremlin.“This is the first time we’ve seen a takedown of this scale linked directly to the national propaganda channel,” said Mr. Nimmo, who was part of a group at the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab that had been investigating the Russian campaign separately from Facebook. “This is the first time we’ve had something that was so directly traced back to Sputnik itself.”In Moscow, Sputnik accused Facebook of “censorship,” saying that the platform had blocked seven pages that belonged to newsrooms in different countries and calling the decision “political,” according to an article by RIA Novosti, another branch of Russia’s propaganda apparatus.“Sputnik is dealing with news,” the organization said. “If blocking is the only reaction Facebook can come up with in response to the quality work of news media, then we have no further questions.”The statement also said Sputnik hoped that “common sense will prevail.”The Atlantic Council said the pages were a covert attempt to amplify messages from Sputnik, a division of the Kremlin’s media agency, Rossiya Segodnya. All told, the inauthentic network helped Sputnik raise its reach in the countries covered by more than 170 percent, according to the Atlantic Council.Much of the posted material was innocuous content about weather, fashion and local celebrities, but some presented negative views toward NATO and the treatment of ethnic Russians in Baltic countries. Most of the pages didn’t mention a connection with Rossiya Segodnya or Sputnik.“This therefore appears to have been an attempt to audience build and draw users’ attention to Sputnik as a media brand rather than to manipulate them with Russian political or geopolitical messaging,” the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab said in a report published separately from Facebook.The work appeared to be coordinated. On a single day in October 2017, the Atlantic Council said, inauthentic pages seeking to spread Sputnik content were created to focus on Armenia, Chechnya, Estonia, Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. At other points, fan pages purporting to support the presidents of Uzbekistan and Tajikistan were created, but they were actually run from Russia.Facebook also identified a separate effort, discovered after a tip from United States law enforcement authorities, aimed at users in Ukraine, a frequent target of Moscow misinformation campaigns over the four-year confrontation between the two neighboring countries.The tactics used by those behind the Ukraine-targeted accounts were similar to the misinformation efforts conducted by Russia’s Internet Research Agency during the campaign for the recent midterm elections in the United States, Facebook said.The effort included 107 Facebook pages, groups and accounts, as well as 41 Instagram accounts.“The people behind this activity coordinated with one another and used fake accounts to misrepresent themselves, and that was the basis for our action,” Mr. Gleicher said of the shutdowns.Facebook has discovered several coordinated misinformation campaigns since the 2016 presidential election, when Russia-linked groups used the social network to reach 126 million users.In November, Facebook said it had blocked more than 100 Facebook and Instagram posts over concern they were linked to the Internet Research Agency. In August, Facebook also removed 652 fake accounts, pages and groups originating in Russia and Iran that were trying to spread misinformation.The actions are a shift from when Facebook was widely criticized for failing to detect Russian interference. Facebook executives have said the company is making progress, but also warn of a protracted and challenging battle as groups become more sophisticated at avoiding detection.“Get used to this,” Mr. Nimmo said. “It’s not just Facebook. It’s going to be all the platforms. This is the new normal.”Neil MacFarquhar contributed reporting from Moscow.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Another attempt in Parliament to control the Brexit process, a special look at Indian elections and a global search for “Salvator Mundi.” Here’s the latest:Late Monday in Britain, lawmakers will try again to come up with an alternative to Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan, which they have now rejected three times.Chances of success appear minimal. None of the eight options that were on the table last week managed to fetch a majority in Parliament, and fewer are likely to be considered in this round.Failure would leave the country with two unappealing options: leave the E.U. in a little over a week without a deal or delay Brexit further.Analysis: “In interviews, many Britons expressed despair over the inability of the political system to produce a compromise,” our London correspondents Ellen Barry and Benjamin Mueller write. “No one feels that the government has represented their interests. No one is satisfied. No one is hopeful.“It has amounted to a hollowing out of confidence in democracy itself.”The winners: One industry that seems to be booming amid the Brexit chaos: law firms dealing with client concerns about the legal ramifications of the divorce with the E.U. The president, emboldened by his attorney general’s public characterization of the Mueller report, has threatened to close off parts of the U.S. border with Mexico this week. He also ordered the State Department to cut off aid to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, saying the three countries were not doing enough to stop migrants from pushing north.In recent weeks, Border Patrol facilities have been strained by an influx of migrants — the largest annual surge in years — ahead of the arrival of the deadly summer heat.Impact: Sealing the border would effectively close off the U.S. from one of its largest trading partners, and could leave American citizens who travel back and forth stuck in limbo.Conditions: Processing stations across the 1,900-mile border with Mexico were not expanded despite projections of the influx, and makeshift additions have been overwhelmed.One camp under a bridge in El Paso, Tex., which one volunteer described as resembling a “concentration camp,” was cleared out following an outcry over conditions there.In the aftermath of the live-streamed massacre in Christchurch, New Zealand, lawmakers in both countries are considering sweeping new policies that would restrict the kind of content permitted on social media platforms.If the two countries move ahead, their regulations could serve as models for the rest of the world amid growing frustration and anger with Silicon Valley giants.But the efforts walk a fine line between intervention and censorship. For established democracies that cherish free speech, China’s sophisticated system of suppressing online content could be seen as a cautionary tale.Over the weekend: Social media companies are themselves beginning to converge around the need for new rules. Mark Zuckerberg invited Congress to regulate Facebook and other social media networks in an opinion piece for The Washington Post. He suggested they focus on harmful content, election integrity, privacy and data portability.With around 900 million voters, almost 2,000 registered parties and five weeks of voting, the Indian elections can seem cacophonous. Even for your briefing writer, a diaspora Indian, they’re difficult to follow. The country’s myriad states, cultures and socioeconomic segments can’t be sliced into left or right, red or blue. It’s a kaleidoscope, and each prism illuminates a different aspect of the political spectrum.But it is also heartening to watch this young democracy exercising a right denied to many in the surrounding region. And it is important: What happens in India can end up shifting the global economy and geopolitical landscape.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his right-wing Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party are seeking to retain power, facing a surging challenge by the opposition Congress Party. The briefing will be regularly unpacking aspects of the race. Voting unfolds from from April 11 until May 19 and results are announced on May 23.For now, keep in mind that the backdrop for the campaigning is a flammable mix of economic, religious and national security issues. Unemployment is high, sectarian violence has risen, farmers across the country are increasingly frustrated and there’s a broad disillusionment with politicians.Send us your feedback and any questions you have about the elections here.Taiwan: Two Chinese fighter jets crossed the self-ruled island’s maritime border, a move Taiwanese officials condemned as “provocative,” saying it “seriously impacted regional safety and stability.”Jeff Bezos: The Amazon founder’s security consultant accused the Saudi government of hacking Mr. Bezos’ phone, motivated by the aggressive coverage in The Washington Post, which Mr. Bezos also owns, of the murder of Jamal Khashoggi. The consultant provided no evidence but said he had turned his findings over to law enforcement.Boeing 737: Black box data from the doomed Ethiopian Airlines flight suggests that a faulty sensor that erroneously activated an automated stabilizing system on the jet caused the crash, a sequence also suspected in the crash of a Lion Air flight in October.Joe Biden: The former vice president, accused of touching and kissing a Nevada candidate just before appearing in support of her political campaign in 2014, released a statement saying he didn’t believe he acted inappropriately but admitted to making “expressions of affection” on the campaign trail. He is expected to announce whether he will run for president soon.Arctic drilling: A U.S. federal judge ruled that President Trump’s executive order to lift an Obama-era ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean was unlawful, keeping the drilling ban in “full force” and hindering Mr. Trump’s efforts to undo his predecessor’s environmental legacy.North Korea: The country said that a mysterious raid of its embassy in Madrid last month, led by a Mexican man who lives in the U.S., was a “grave terrorist attack” and a “flagrant violation of international law.”Afghanistan: The country’s vice president, Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, survived the latest in a series of Taliban attacks. The insurgent group’s list of grievances against the former warlord leads with the deaths of thousands of Taliban prisoners who surrendered to his forces in late 2001, many of whom suffocated in sealed trucks en route to prison.“Salvator Mundi”: The location of the famed painting attributed to Leonardo da Vinci has been a mystery since last year, shortly after a Saudi royal, most likely the crown prince, paid $450 million for it.The Kardashians: For more than a decade, the family has turned its feuding on reality TV into business opportunities. “People don’t know how much work goes into it,” the family matriarch, Kris Jenner, said in an interview with The Times.111 years young: Two British men, Alfred Smith and Bob Weighton, have lived through two world wars, more than 20 prime ministers and the entire rule of Queen Elizabeth II. Their advice for longevity? “Avoid dying,” and “porridge is helpful.”Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Alison Roman’s spicy noodle soup with mushrooms and herbs is a deeply flavored vegetarian dinner.Time management can only get you so far. The true key to productivity, according to Adam Grant, a Wharton School expert, is attention management.Hostels are the best way to travel cheaply all over the world.The Bauhaus art school celebrates the centennial of its founding today.The Modernist school (whose name comes from the German for “house building”) was among the first to combine the teaching of crafts, design, architecture and fine art.Walter Gropius, the architect who established the school in 1919 in Weimar, Germany, wrote in the Bauhaus’s program that the ultimate aim was the “unified work of art.”And he enlisted masters of various artistic disciplines, such as Wassily Kandinsky, Laszlo Moholy-Nagy and Paul Klee, to join the Bauhaus faculty.The school survived for little more than a decade before it was shut down in 1933 under pressure from the Nazis.But its legacy of uniting art and functional design in everyday life is long-lasting, and Bauhaus principles were spread worldwide.Anna Schaverien, from our London newsroom, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAfter life with Harvey Weinstein, the show is back on Bravo for its 17th season. Are you ready to love again?By Valeriya Safronova“Project Runway” arrived on television at the end of 2004, the same year that Mark Zuckerberg created a website called The Facebook at Harvard. In 2007, Apple released the first iPhone. Three years later, when “Project Runway” was in its seventh season, Instagram appeared in the App Store.That tech-history lesson is to say: 2019 looks a whole lot different from 2004. So when Bravo reacquired the rights to “Project Runway” last year, the network wasted no time in recalibrating the show, which will have its premiere on Thursday. The most significant of the changes is the cast.Tim Gunn and Heidi Klum, whose faces have been synonymous with “Project Runway,” announced last September that they would not return to the show and that they are developing a new fashion series with Amazon, where viewers will be able to buy the styles they like through the website. Zac Posen, who replaced the designer Michael Kors, also departed. Nina Garcia, now the editor of Elle, is the only remaining member of the original cast.“Heidi and Tim were the originals, and I enjoyed working with them,” said Shari Levine, the executive vice president for current production at Bravo. “But this is 15 years later. It’s important that the show evolve and look to the next generation.” Die-hard fans may embrace the new cast or see them as impostors, but Bravo’s picks carry significant credentials. The new host is the supermodel Karlie Kloss, who is also the founder of Kode With Klossy, a nonprofit that hosts coding camps for girls around the country. Christian Siriano, who won the “Project Runway” competition in its fourth season and made a name for himself as a designer to the stars and a champion for inclusivity, is the new mentor. Joining Ms. Garcia on the judges’ row are Elaine Welteroth, who is the former editor of Teen Vogue, and the designer Brandon Maxwell, who most recently made a splash dressing Lady Gaga for the Oscars.Guests will include the rapper Cardi B and Dapper Dan, who in the 1980s and ’90s made “knockups” using the Gucci logo without permission and who has recently made a buzzy comeback with a Harlem atelier and an authorized Gucci collaboration. Bravo is surely counting on these casting choices to help revive the show’s ratings. According to Nielsen, Season 5 drew the most viewers: almost 3.6 million per episode. By Season 16, the last to air, the audience was roughly half that.Though “Project Runway” was ahead of the curve in some ways — bringing in a designer who incorporated magnets, cameras and other technology into her work, for instance, or asking contestants to make clothing from waste (a Heron Preston move before Heron Preston) — the show also had moments best left in the past. Fans will remember an episode in which Mr. Gunn called a model “zaftig” and then elaborated, saying, “She’s a little large.” Today Mr. Gunn would be swiftly “canceled” across social media for such a comment. The culture has changed. And one of those changes — the #MeToo movement — is in part the reason the show is back on Bravo. “Project Runway” was owned by the Weinstein Company, which declared bankruptcy last year after dozens of women accused Harvey Weinstein of sexual misconduct that spanned decades. Though the show ran on Bravo for its first five seasons, the Weinstein Company signed a deal in 2008 to move it to Lifetime. But after allegations against Mr. Weinstein became public in 2017, Lifetime’s parent, A&E Television Networks, accused the Weinstein Company of breaching its contract and ended all of its obligations to the show, including the airing of Seasons 17 and 18.In May 2018, a Delaware bankruptcy court approved a bid from Lantern Capital Partners to acquire the Weinstein Company’s assets. Days later, Bravo announced that “Project Runway” would return.“It’s been on another network for 10 years, but if you asked a lot of people, they would tell you it’s a show on Bravo,” Ms. Levine said. “We defined it, and it defined us.”A long-running criticism of “Project Runway” is that over a 14-year run, it produced only one high-profile designer: Mr. Siriano. Many of its contestants opened boutiques or started their own lines, but none reached the mainstream recognition of Mr. Siriano. “A lot of people went to design school and wanted to become designers because of that show,” said Fern Mallis, the industry executive widely credited with organizing New York Fashion Week (and who appeared on “Project Runway” several times as a guest judge). “On the other hand, it falsely created a sense that if you sew two pieces of fabric together, you’re a designer.” Ms. Mallis added that many of the challenges tested the contestants’ artistic abilities but not their understanding of the moneymaking side of fashion. “Your business still has to manufacture, deliver and price items correctly,” she said. Some of the changes in the 17th season nod to those concerns. Bravo has increased the prize money to $250,000; thrown in a mentorship with the Council of Fashion Designers of America, which runs the main New York Fashion Week calendar; and added a “flash sale” component to some of the episodes, which will allow viewers to purchase the top looks, as decided by them and the judges.“One of the disconnects about the previous show was that if you loved it, you couldn’t necessarily buy it,” Mr. Maxwell said in a phone call. The change was both a response to the new culture of consumerism — items are a click away — and a way to engage the audience in real time. “Everything is changing in retail,” Ms. Kloss said over breakfast at Mercer Kitchen in SoHo in February. “Here we are in SoHo, and there are so many vacant spaces.”Ms. Welteroth, sitting next to Ms. Kloss, chimed in. “You cannot underestimate the power of the digital revolution,” she said. “Before, there was no dialogue unless you were writing a letter and snail-mailing it in. Now you hear the voices of the people you’re reaching instantly. That gives the consumer or the reader much more power. You can no longer ignore marginalized voices who are saying, ‘Hey, this doesn’t reflect me, this offends me, this doesn’t include me.’” She added: “You can sell online without ever getting the approval of Vogue.”Ms. Welteroth, who is credited with reinventing Teen Vogue as a more socially conscious, politically engaged publication, noted that designers have to be conscious of the world around them. “You have to be mindful of what is happening and really conscious in how you create and what stories you’re telling,” she said.To that end, one of the challenges on the new “Project Runway” will ask each designer to think about and create designs for an issue they want to champion. The new show also strives to reflect a broader swath of experiences. “I’m really proud we have women of all shapes and sizes and the first transgender model in ‘Project Runway’ history,” Ms. Kloss said. “Fashion should serve everyone.” The new judges said they adjusted to their roles quickly, each finding a personal rhythm and style. “Brandon would have, like, really funny stuff,” Ms. Welteroth said of Mr. Maxwell’s design notes. “Like, ‘cowgirl goes to SoulCycle.’ Or he would just put a big ‘No.’ One time Nina left early, and we looked at her cards, and we were, like, ‘Wow.’ We saved them. They were so good.” Ms. Kloss turned to Ms. Welteroth. “Your notes were, like, there was not an ounce of space left on the card,” she said. “I would just have three words.”For all the changes, some things stay the same, even in the “one day you’re in, one day you’re out” world of fashion. “I felt like all I talked about was fabric,” Mr. Siriano said of his time as a mentor. “The importance of choosing the right fabric,” he said, “will exist till the end of time. Satin doesn’t change.” And besides, he said, “If you can’t pick one fabric for one challenge, how are you making a collection four times a year for customers around the world?”An earlier version of this article misstated the name of the nonprofit that Karlie Kloss founded. It is Kode With Klossy, not Kode With Karlie. Also, an earlier version of this article misstated Cardi B’s role on the show. She is a guest, not a guest judge.Valeriya Safronova is a reporter for the Style section. She is based in New York.  @vsaffron Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Vindu Goel and Sheera FrenkelNEW DELHI — After a suicide bombing on Feb. 14 in the disputed border region of Kashmir, India accused neighboring Pakistan of harboring the terrorists who it said had orchestrated the attack. The two countries quickly traded airstrikes.Online, there was another battle.One clip that circulated widely on Facebook and other services purported to show an aerial assault by India on an alleged terrorist camp in Pakistan. It was, in fact, taken from a video game. Photographs of dead bodies wrapped in white, supposedly of Pakistani militants killed in the attack, actually depicted victims of a 2015 heat wave, according to fact checkers. And local news outlets raced to post shreds of “exclusive” information about the hostilities, much of it downright false.Facebook executives said the deluge was extraordinary. “I’ve never seen anything like this before — the scale of fake content circulating on one story,” tweeted Trushar Barot, a former BBC journalist who leads the social network’s anti-disinformation efforts in India.The flood of fake posts gave Facebook a taste of what is to come as India prepares for the world’s biggest election. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party are seeking another five years in power, and as many as 879 million people are expected to vote over five weeks starting on April 11.But as campaigning goes into high gear, Facebook is already struggling to cope with the disinformation and hate speech on its core social network and on WhatsApp, its popular messaging service.On Monday, the company said it had removed hundreds of misleading pages and accounts associated with the B.J.P. and its main rival, the Indian National Congress, many of which were publishing false information. Facebook also removed more than 100 fake pages and accounts controlled by the Pakistani military.India — where the company has 340 million users, more than in any other country — poses distinct challenges. Posts and videos in more than a dozen languages regularly flummox Facebook’s automated screening software and its human moderators, both of which are built largely around English. Many problematic posts come directly from candidates, political parties and the media. And on WhatsApp, where messages are encrypted, the company has little visibility into what is being shared.False rumors of child kidnappers have gone viral on WhatsApp in India, prompting fearful mobs to kill two dozen innocent people since April“India’s elections present a unique set of issues, including a large number of languages and an extended time period for voting,” said Katie Harbath, Facebook’s public policy head for global elections. She said the company had been planning for the election for more than a year.Other major social media platforms like Twitter and Google’s YouTube are also grappling with false news and hate speech around India’s elections. For the first time, the country’s Election Commission has asked online services to police election-related content from candidates and parties.But the stakes are especially high for Facebook, which has been under scrutiny since the 2016 United States presidential election for distributing misinformation and for being misused by Russian agents to stir discord. While the company survived the 2018 American midterm elections relatively unscathed, it still found foreign influence networks attempting to use it to sway voters. And Facebook’s services were plagued by misinformation in last year’s Mexican and Brazilian elections.India is one of Facebook’s most important electoral tests this year, company officials said, along with major elections in places including the Philippines and Indonesia. Facebook’s performance will be a prelude for how it navigates a likely onslaught of propaganda, false information and foreign meddling during the 2020 presidential election in the United States.“The Indian elections in 2019 are an important test case for how they get 2020 right, and how they get elections right everywhere going forward,” said Graham Brookie, director of the Digital Forensic Research Lab at the Atlantic Council, a think tank working with Facebook to study disinformation campaigns.India has been a laboratory for Facebook’s election efforts since 2014, when the country last chose a Parliament. In that contest, Facebook worked closely with Mr. Modi’s campaign to target ads and rally fans — part of a global effort to spread the use of the platform in politics. With Facebook’s assistance, Mr. Modi became the world’s No. 2 most “liked” politician behind President Barack Obama, according to campaign officials.After Mr. Modi’s victory, Facebook advised him on how to use its service to govern, including getting government agencies and officials online. In 2015, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, hosted Mr. Modi for a televised chat at the company’s Silicon Valley headquarters. Facebook held India up as a model for how governments could use the social network.Facebook has since played down its connection to politicians around the world, including Mr. Modi, amid a rise in political misinformation. Ajit Mohan, a former Fox executive who became the social network’s first India chief in January, said, “We are absolutely not affiliated to any political party in India or anywhere else in the world.”Now all the major Indian parties have sophisticated disinformation strategies, which include posting false and manipulated photos and videos and coordinating posts across a network of paid acolytes and volunteers. That has put Facebook, which has said it does not want to stifle free expression, in an awkward position.For the past year, the company has relied on two independent organizations — first a local group called Boom and, more recently, the news agency Agence France-Presse — to fact-check a handful of posts in India every day. In February, Facebook added five more organizations to the stable and expanded the number of languages covered to seven, up from just English initially.Facebook’s algorithms flag potentially fake posts to the fact-checkers, who decide which ones to investigate. After they publish their findings on Facebook, the company said, it reduces the visibility of false posts.Yet some of Facebook’s fact-checkers may themselves be contributing to misinformation. Alt News, an Indian fact-checking site unaffiliated with Facebook, recently found two of the social network’s new partners — the large media houses India Today Group and Jagran Media Network — had repeatedly published false information related to the Kashmir attack.Pratik Sinha, the founder of Alt News, said Facebook did not seem to view false news as a serious problem. “The whole thing is a P.R. effort,” he said. Jency Jacob, the managing editor of Boom, said Facebook needed to do more, including making it easier for users to report misinformation.Balkrishna, who heads the fact-checking effort at India Today, said that mistakes happened and that the company tried to correct them promptly. Pratyush Ranjan, a senior editor at Jagran New Media, the company’s digital division, said its fact-checking site, Vishvas News, operated separately and followed strict ethics guidelines. Facebook said it relied on the Poynter Institute, an American journalism organization, to certify its fact-checkers and review their ethical standards.A separate Facebook effort to assemble a broad coalition of Indian news organizations to combat false news during the election has been delayed amid funding problems and the departure of a key journalist who had worked on it.The company has also tried to shed more light on political advertising on its site, posting weekly reports on top advertisers and how much they spent. Since Feb. 21, when Facebook began tracking the data for India, spending has totaled about 103 million rupees, or about $1.5 million.But the social network has not pushed for transparency on who is really paying for the ads. While the site’s top three political advertisers in India were all associated with the B.J.P.’s election efforts, none of them explicitly disclosed that affiliation to viewers.How does the election work? Will Modi win? What are the main issues facing India and its 900 million voters?Facebook has also had difficulty dealing with hate speech, which is expected to intensify during the election.For example, Raja Singh, a fiery right-wing Hindu legislator in the southern Indian city of Hyderabad, refers to Muslims as “cow killers” — an inflammatory phrase that has led to some deaths since the country’s Hindu majority considers cows to be sacred. Although Facebook had removed some of Mr. Singh’s posts for violating its hate speech rules, at least one threatening rant — in which he calls Muslims “dogs” and talks of cutting off their necks — remained on his official Facebook page for months.Facebook removed the video, and then deleted Mr. Singh’s Facebook page, after The New York Times inquired about it.In an interview, Mr. Singh said he was simply defending Hindus from Muslims. “It is imperative that we threaten them in our own style,” he said.Thenmozhi Soundararajan, the founder of Equality Labs, a human rights group in the United States, said her organization recently studied more than 1,000 Facebook posts that attacked caste and religious minorities. It found that 80 percent of the posts stayed on the social network after they were reported as hate speech, and nearly half of the posts that were initially removed were up again several months later.Mr. Mohan said Facebook recognized that it had more work to do. It recently decided to set up an election “war room” in India to better respond to problems.“This will evolve and continue to get better,” he said. “There is a tremendous amount of sincerity that we need to get this right.”Follow Vindu Goel and Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @vindugoel and @sheeraf.Vindu Goel reported from New Delhi, and Sheera Frenkel from San Francisco. Suhasini Raj contributed reporting from New Delhi.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Astead W. HerndonSenator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who is bidding to be the policy pacesetter in the Democratic presidential primary, championed another expansive idea on Friday evening in front of a crowd of thousands in Queens: a regulatory plan aimed at breaking up some of America’s largest tech companies, including Amazon, Google, Apple and Facebook.At a rally in Long Island City, the neighborhood that was to be home to a major new Amazon campus, Ms. Warren laid out her proposal calling for regulators who would undo some tech mergers, as well as legislation that would prohibit platforms from both offering a marketplace for commerce and participating in that marketplace.“We have these giants corporations — do I have to tell that to people in Long Island City? — that think they can roll over everyone,” Ms. Warren told the crowd, drawing applause. She compared Amazon to the dystopian novel “The Hunger Games,” in which those with power force their wishes on the less fortunate.“I’m sick of freeloading billionaires,” she said.Ms. Warren’s policy announcement sent reverberations from New York to Silicon Valley, as she further cemented herself as one of the Democratic candidates most willing to call for large-scale changes to the country’s structure in the name of equality.Among the crowded field of Democrats seeking the presidential nomination, Ms. Warren has done the most to add detail to those early proposals, including a plan for universal child care, a tax on the country’s wealthiest families, and, as of Friday, breaking up big technological giants.Ms. Warren’s regulatory plan would also force the rollback of some acquisitions by tech giants, the campaign said, including Facebook’s deals for WhatsApp and Instagram, Amazon’s addition of Whole Foods, and Google’s purchase of Waze. Companies would be barred from transferring or sharing users’ data with third parties. Dual entities, such as Amazon Marketplace and AmazonBasics, would be split apart.[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.]Pressure for elected officials to place additional oversight on mega-tech companies has been building for months, particularly after revelations that companies such as Facebook may have violated customer privacy agreements. Ms. Warren is also sending a political warning shot across the Democratic primary field, where decisions on how much to embrace or reject Silicon Valley and its wealthy donors could become an important dividing line among candidates.In the wide-open nomination race, Democrats such as Ms. Warren, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota have expressed a willingness to limit the influence of companies such as Facebook, Google, Apple and Amazon — though Mr. Sanders and Ms. Klobuchar have yet to present clear policy details. Senator Kamala Harris, who represents many of those companies based in her home state of California, has repeatedly pressed executives on consumer privacy but has stayed away from direct calls to limit their influence. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey has been more willing to embrace the controversial corporations, who have frequently used their vast resources to lobby politicians of both parties.“Our technology industry is the envy of the world and we need policies that will foster innovation and consumer choice — but we also need stronger enforcement of antitrust law,” said Ro Khanna, the California House Democrat who represents Silicon Valley headquarters of companies such as Apple and eBay. He said that blanket statements against big tech companies weren’t helpful, but that each company needed to be “evaluated on a case-by-case basis and afforded due process.”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]Ms. Warren’s plan creates two tiers of companies that would fall under the new regulations: those that have an annual global revenue of $25 billion or more, and those with annual revenue of $90 million to $25 billion. The upper tier would be required to “structurally separate” their products from their marketplace. Smaller companies would be subject to regulations but would not be forced to separate themselves from the online marketplace.Ms. Warren, who has previously said moving to Boston would have been a “good opportunity” for Amazon, said in a Medium post Friday morning that companies have grown so powerful that they can bully cities and states into showering them with massive taxpayer handouts in exchange for doing business, and can act — in the words of Mark Zuckerberg — “more like a government than a traditional company.”During a brief interview later in New York, Ms. Warren refused to say whether Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo was right to have offered hefty tax incentives to Amazon in return for the proposed campus in Queens. Boston’s mayor, Martin J. Walsh, from Ms. Warren’s home state, also offered similar incentives.“That’s not the point,” she said. “Before you even get into the question of do you need to change the statutes, there are structural changes you can make in the economy to prevent Amazon from dancing its way across America saying, ‘What will you offer me if I came?’”This is a refrain she has hit for years, including in a 2016 speech titled “Reigniting Competition in the American Economy.” Last year, she introduced the Accountable Capitalism Act, which seeks to curb shareholder power by forcing corporations to increase worker representation on their governing boards, while also reducing incentives for big companies to pay out shareholders rather than reinvest in businesses.Matt Stoller, a fellow at the Open Markets Institute in Washington and a former senior adviser to the Senate Budget Committee, said Ms. Warren’s plan was “practical” and “necessary.” He compared big tech companies to the tobacco monopolies of America’s past, which were eventually subjected to antitrust lawsuits.“There’s been a traditional sense around the politics of D.C. that these companies are progressive,” Mr. Stoller said. “Their employees give to Democrats, they’re friendly to social liberalism, there’s an idealism to how they talk about the world. That’s been the traditional sense.”“But these companies have the moral frame of Big Tobacco,” he added. “They don’t care.”Carl Szabo, who is vice president at an e-commerce trade association called NetChoice, said he felt Ms. Warren’s plan was unnecessary. He warned that it could lead to weaponization of antitrust laws, as legislators target companies deemed to be their enemies.“Politicizing and weaponizing antitrust law is ripe for abuse,” said Mr. Szabo, who is a professor of privacy law at George Mason University’s law school. “We’ve already seen how politics can inject itself into antitrust reviews, and I don’t think our legislators should be encouraging this precedent.”Though tech giants have experienced several controversies in recent years, it is unclear how popular Ms. Warren’s antitrust proposal would be with voters. Rob Atkinson, president of Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, an industry-sponsored group, defended the power of big companies in the technology sector for what he described as benefits to consumers.“The Warren campaign’s call to break up big tech companies reflects a ‘big is bad, small is beautiful’ ideology run amok,” Mr. Atkinson said. “The proposal ignores the fact that many of the services big tech companies now provide free used to cost consumers money.”Matt McIlwain, a partner at the Seattle venture capital firm Madrona Venture Group, which was an early Amazon investor, said in an email, “Senator Warren and others with a similar mind-set are misguided on the need to break up larger tech companies.”“Companies in the innovation economy have a strong track record of creating quality products and services that are often free or at dramatically lower costs than previous services,” Mr. McIlwain said.For those closely watching the Democratic presidential nomination contest, the announcement was another example of Ms. Warren’s political strategy, which is to appeal to voters based on policy ideas and retail politics, not soaring oration or feel-good messages of unity.Among the crowd in Queens, which included more young people than many Warren rallies across the country, several said they appreciated her policy focus.“The fact that she focuses on concrete policy, this early in the race, is really aspirational,” said Milo Vassallo, who is involved in several Brooklyn leftist groups. Mr. Vassallo said he particularly liked Ms. Warren’s new proposal on technology.“Her goal is not to undermine big tech, but just make it more competitive,” he said.Kevin Murray, a 28-year-old law student who lives in Queens and who has not decided on a candidate to support, praised Ms. Warren’s proposals as “tangible.” Mr. Murray also wanted to come to the rally because Ms. Warren is the author of one of his law school textbooks.“I would’ve brought it for her to sign,” he said, “but it was a rental.”OpinionZeynep TufekciAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byMorin Oluwole heads the social media giant’s advisory operation for Louis Vuitton, Christian Dior and others.By Dana ThomasPARIS — Facebook has been mired in mud for the past year, with its data-sharing and disinformation scandals and the subsequent fallout. But there is a woman in Paris whose job it is to make the platform look as appealing as possible to an industry that is all about beauty and image: Morin Oluwole, the global head of luxury for Facebook and Instagram.Because she is good at her job and because she is a rare combination in the technology sphere — a woman, a minority and a luxury brand acolyte — the company has been touting her as one of its public faces.Not an easy assignment. With Facebook drawing attention for its data practices and use of personal information to make money, Ms. Oluwole, 34, and her particular area of expertise — how to employ user’s data profiles for targeted advertising on Facebook and Instagram — have been encountering increased public scrutiny and pressure. So much so that she became visibly uncomfortable when the subject was broached.“It’s a false idea that there is a collection, there is a transfer, there is a sale of data to clients,” she said during a recent interview in a nondescript conference room at Facebook’s headquarters in the Paris’s Second Arrondissement. “Data is not transferred.” She stared, not blinking. “That’s super, super clear and very important.”Well, O.K.: Data might not be sold. But it is used. And luxury has benefited.When Ms. Oluwole opened her division four years ago, she said, she faced resistance from the old-school fashion names, long averse to digital novelty. Slowly, she earned executives’ trust — not only because she is a savvy marketer with a master’s degree in business administration from Columbia University, but also because she is a devoted luxury consumer. On the day of the interview, she had augmented her swishy navy Maje minidress with Chanel boots that had a golf-ball-size pearl suspended in each clear Lucite heel, a stainless-steel Rolex Datejust watch and a Louis Vuitton ring adorned with the initial M.Her iPhone was enveloped by a Goyard case. Her business card holder: Chanel. This season, she attended the Christian Dior and Berluti shows. “Luxury is what I do,” she said, “but it’s also part of my innate life.”Born in Lagos, Nigeria, to a family of doctors and lawyers, and educated in England, Ms. Oluwole joined Facebook in 2006, when she was a pre-med undergrad at Stanford University and the start-up was still an inter-university network with just 150 employees. In 2013, she saw the potential of the fashion world, and persuaded her then-boss Carolyn Everson, Facebook’s vice president of global marketing solutions, to establish a department focused squarely on the luxury sector.In 2015, Ms. Oluwole opened her two-person “global luxury hub” in Paris. She rented a small apartment in the hipster neighborhood of Montorgueil (and has since bought a home in the tony 16th Arrondissement) and enrolled in French classes at the Alliance Française.About the same time, Instagram hired Eva Chen, the well-connected former editor in chief of Lucky magazine, as director of fashion partnerships for the platform in New York. Ms. Chen’s brief has been to consult with fashionable figures, such as models, designers, stylists and celebrities, and help them create posts that increase their followers (her services are free).Ms. Oluwole runs the business side of the equation: counseling luxury brands on how to use Facebook and Instagram to their financial benefit, and she bills clients like advertising agencies do, based on consumer response, such as clicks per post.She said she doesn’t ever tell brands what the message should be. Instead, she said, “we build a 360-degree communication strategy for brands to share content and drive business value via targeted advertising.”That is how Ms. Oluwole talks: in jargon-heavy M.B.A.-speak that is, at times, hard to parse. Straight-backed and no-nonsense, she exudes authority. “And chic — she is so chic,” Ms. Chen said. “A great mix of strategy and style. Morin” — pronounced MUH-rhin — “understands all the different aspects of Facebook and Instagram.”Louis Vuitton and Dior were the first to grasp Ms. Oluwole’s pitch and sign on. Gucci, Bottega Veneta, Hermès and others soon followed. Her division has grown to 10 staff members in Paris, with satellite offices in New York, London, Milan, Dubai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong. She wouldn’t say how many brands are advertisers or partners on Facebook or Instagram but “we represent all the major players in the luxury business,” she said.Ms. Oluwole’s staff creates profiles — compiled from user information, like date of birth, ZIP code, education and work history, favorite music, pages followed — to pinpoint ad targets for brands. For several years, Facebook and Instagram also incorporated information from third-party brokers like Acxiom but such data compilation was banned when the General Data Protection Regulation went into effect in the European Union in May.Facebook and Instagram were obliged to change their gathering process “across the board” to be compliant, Ms. Oluwole said: “We no longer get information from external sources. We can’t see what kind of car someone bought, because we don’t work with that data provider anymore.”But say you live in 90210 — Beverly Hills — and you “like” Tesla, Fendi and Peninsula Hotels. That would make you a bull’s-eye for Ms. Oluwole’s partners.“Facebook has all this data that you don’t realize they have,” said Scott Galloway, professor of marketing at NYU’s Stern School of Business, and author of “The Four: The Hidden DNA of Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google.” “They know you better than your doctor, priest and rabbi.” The problem, he said, is that “bad actors can weaponize that data,” as Cambridge Analytica proved last spring, when the London-based political consulting firm revealed that it had harvested personal data from millions on Facebook — specifics that investigators said swayed elections and Britain’s vote to leave the European Union.No one is saying that Gucci, Louis Vuitton and Ms. Oluwole’s other clients are involved in anything similar. But it is true that she has built a business, and a lucrative one, on capturing user information and exploiting it to the profit of Facebook, Instagram and their luxury partners. While she would not specify the division’s revenue, she said her division’s piece of the Facebook pie was “quite significant” and added, brightly, “our potential is still large.”She is not the only one who thinks so. Last summer, YouTube hired the “CNN Style” host Derek Blasberg, and Snapchat lured Selby Drummond from her longtime editor’s post at American Vogue; they, too, have been charged with forging alliances with luxury, apparel and beauty brands.Data mining methods have caught the attention of regulatory agencies. One, Germany’s Federal Cartel Office, ruled last month that Facebook could no longer combine user data with information from its other platforms, such as WhatsApp and Instagram, without the person’s explicit consent. Facebook said it would appeal.Whatever the outcome, it may be moot. “These platforms used to be separate companies — Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp — with separate databanks,” Mr. Galloway said. “Now they are integrating their back ends — one back end and three different interfaces. And, in my mind, that is dangerous. Facebook will have all this data in one place. And it’s porous — it’s easy for others to access. “The Centers for Disease Control has your health records, but they took extraordinary measures to protect that data,” he said. “Facebook hasn’t done that.”(On Wednesday, Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook chief executive, announced in a blog post that Facebook soon would shift from public posts toward a more secure messaging system.)Other platforms have begun to muscle in on Ms. Oluwole’s territory. In August, Ms. Drummond had a preview of Adidas’s Falcon W shoe on a new Snapchat show called “Fashion 5 Ways;” the stock sold out in six hours. Mr. Blasberg teamed with Rihanna to stream her Savage x Fenty lingerie show on YouTube during New York Fashion Week last September; they further amped up the noise by packing the front row with popular social media influencers.As a result, Facebook is increasing its efforts — or, as Ms. Oluwole said, putting “more functionalities in the pipeline.” IGTV, or Instagram Television, is becoming a more important channel on the app. “Stories” are expanding at Facebook. And there is “Shopping,” a new Instagram tab dedicated to exactly that.“One day,” Ms. Oluwole said, technology will “create some sort of system that allows you to intelligently guess what the next items are that a consumer wants to purchase.” She looked excited. That time, she said, would be “great.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Jacob SilvermanTHE AGE OF SURVEILLANCE CAPITALISM The Fight for a Human Future at the New Frontier of Power By Shoshana Zuboff 691 pp. PublicAffairs. $38Canadian politicians don’t attract much notice this side of the border, but recently I’ve been heeding the words of Charlie Angus. A member of Canada’s Parliament for the New Democratic Party, Angus is a longtime punk rocker and activist with ties to the Catholic Worker movement; he’s also a sharp critic of the growing power of Big Tech. In late November, Angus attended a hearing in British Parliament in which representatives from nine countries took turns interrogating a Facebook vice president about the company’s proliferating scandals (an empty chair sat before a Mark Zuckerberg nameplate, marking the chief executive’s absence).For Angus, fake news and data-based manipulation — exemplified by the shadowy work of Cambridge Analytica, whose voter-profiling scheme is often cited as an important factor in Donald Trump’s 2016 victory — were mere symptoms of a larger malady. “The problem is Facebook,” he declared. “The problem is the unprecedented economic control of every form of social discourse and communication.” It was one of Angus’s colleagues, the Canadian member of Parliament Bob Zimmer, who may be the one who gave the problem a name: “Surveillance capitalism,” he said, with its vast concentrations of data and influence over human life, required new laws and new forms of regulation.Both Angus and Zimmer were right, but before we can establish a firm legislative or regulatory agenda, we have to learn what surveillance capitalism is, as we come to terms with the novel form of economic and social power represented by Facebook, Google and a handful of other tech behemoths privy to our every click and utterance. Enter, as a critical guide, Shoshana Zuboff, who has emerged as the leading explicator of surveillance capitalism. A Harvard Business School professor emerita with decades of experience studying issues of labor and power in the digital economy, Zuboff in 2015 published a paper, “Big Other: Surveillance Capitalism and the Prospects of an Information Civilization,” which has since become an essential source for anyone looking to reckon seriously with what she described as a distinct, emerging economic logic. Now she has followed up that paper with a doorstop of a book, an intensively researched, engagingly written chronicle of surveillance capitalism’s origins and its deleterious prospects for our society.According to Zuboff, surveillance capitalism distinguishes itself from its industrial forebear as “a new economic order that claims human experience as a free source of raw material.” We are the resource to be mined; the billion-dollar profits of Facebook and Google are built on a general accounting of our lives and everyday behavior. But surveillance capitalism is also many other things: “a parasitic economic logic … a rogue mutation of capitalism … a new collective order based on total certainty” and “an overthrow of the people’s sovereignty.” All this may sound a little heady, like perhaps an overseasoned stew of po-mo economic jargon, but Zuboff will have you asking for another helping long before the book’s end.Surveillance capitalism depends on the constant gathering of “behavioral surplus,” or the data exhaust that we produce as part of the normal course of web browsing, app use and digital consumption. All of it is potentially revealing, allowing companies to make sophisticated inferences about who we are, what we want and what we’re likely to do. As the economist Hal Varian noted in 2002, “Every action a user performs is considered a signal to be analyzed and fed back into the system.” That means that there is potentially no end to a surveillance capitalist’s extractive appetite, which is why — in the name of more efficient services and relevant ads — companies are constantly pursuing new, more granular data streams in our homes, workplaces and bodies. Unlike oil, to which it’s often compared, personal data is potentially limitless, but its extraction and consumption may be just as toxic, as we’re only beginning to understand.Under the regime of surveillance capitalism, it is not enough simply to gather information about what people do. Eventually, you have to influence behavior, beyond the simple suasion practiced by targeted ads. It’s not about showing someone the right ad; you have to show it at the right place and time, with the language and imagery calibrated for precise effect. You have to lead people through the physical world, making them show up at the sponsored pop-up store or vote for the preferred candidate. Armed with a veritable real-time feed of a user’s thoughts and feelings, companies are beginning to practice just this kind of coercion, which is why you might see makeup ads before a Friday evening out or why inducements from a personal injury lawyer might pop up on your phone as you sit in a hospital waiting room. When we want things — health information, travel schedules, a date — is also when we are most vulnerable, when intimate data yield themselves for corporate capture. “The result,” as Zuboff notes, “is a perverse amalgam of empowerment inextricably layered with diminishment.” We seem ever more exposed to and dependent on surveillance capitalists, our benevolent info-lords, but their operations are defined by opacity, corporate secrecy and the scrim of technological authority.In the face of all this, Zuboff sees a disastrous overturning of the traditional capitalist order. We are being pushed “toward a society in which capitalism does not function as a means to inclusive economic or political institutions.” With statements like these, Zuboff threatens to lose those readers who don’t share her regard for a bygone halcyon era of industrial capitalism that produced what she calls “traditional reciprocities,” defined by straightforward exchanges of money for goods and services, which in turn bound people together in ostensibly healthy social, economic and political arrangements. Zuboff’s analysis would benefit from more emphasis on the role of deregulation, the declining power of organized labor and the gradual financialization of the economy. With its ability to create boutique investment products that are several degrees removed from any tangible asset, it’s finance that seems like the most obvious ideological forebear of surveillance capitalism, which uses digitalization to render more of life as tradable commodities.But Zuboff’s capacious book has room for minority opinions and other forms of dissent. “The Age of Surveillance Capitalism” may lack a straightforward political program — Zuboff comes across as a liberal, albeit not one who slots neatly on the left-right axis — but it is loaded with useful economic, technological and anthropological analysis. (In this political vacuum, I’d recommend the work of Trebor Scholz, a New School professor who has made a winning case for what he calls platform co-ops — nonprofit, worker-owned tech platforms that would lack the perverse incentives of surveillance capitalism.)We should, after all, avoid a belief in tidy solutions. Works of technology criticism are often expected to provide a few hundred pages of doomsaying before providing a concise final chapter in which the Gordian knot of our problems is neatly and improbably cut. “The Age of Surveillance Capitalism,” with its near-700-page footprint, is thankfully not that kind of book. Light on prescriptivist notions, Zuboff does propose a “right to sanctuary,” based on universalist, if ever more threatened, humanitarian principles, like the right to asylum. But she’s after something bigger, providing a scaffolding of critical thinking from which to examine the great crises of the digital age. Through her we learn that our friends to the north were indeed correct: Facebook is the problem (along with Google, Microsoft, Amazon, et al.). This is the rare book that we should trust to lead us down the long hard road of understanding.Jacob Silverman is the author of “Terms of Service: Social Media and the Price of Constant Connection.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. At least 49 people were killed in a terrorist attack in New Zealand, Britain will seek a Brexit postponement and radio messages shed light on the crash of Flight 302. Here’s the latest:Forty-nine people were killed in shootings at two mosques in central Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, in what Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern called a terrorist attack. A male in his late 20s has been charged with murder and will appear in a Christchurch court Saturday morning, the police said. Three other people have been taken into custody, but it is unclear if they were involved. The gunman broadcast a livestream on Facebook of part of the attack. The horrifying footage shows him arriving at a mosque and firing on people inside until they lay motionless in corners. Before the shooting, someone appearing to be the gunman publicly posted links to a white supremacist manifesto and identified himself as a 28-year-old man born in Australia.Here’s our live briefing. After two long years of negotiations, lawmakers voted to delay the country’s departure from the E.U. beyond the original March 29 deadline. In a flurry of votes on several amendments, Parliament also rejected holding a second referendum on Brexit, and turned down an attempt to seize control of the process from Prime Minister Theresa May.What’s next? Mrs. May must get permission to postpone Brexit from E.U. officials next week, but that might only create new problems.Without an approved deal, it’s unclear how long the extension should be and what can be achieved in the extra time. Too short, and it would be impractical. Too long, and Britain would have to take part in European Parliament elections in May, which neither of the main political parties want.The Times obtained an account of radio messages before the crash of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, which went down almost immediately after takeoff from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.A minute after departure, Captain Yared Getachew calmly reported a “flight control” problem, according to a person who reviewed air traffic communications. Three minutes in, in a panicky voice, he requested permission to return to the airport. For reasons that are unclear, the aircraft, a new Boeing 737 Max 8, appeared to have accelerated to speeds well beyond its safety limits. Air traffic controllers observed that it was going up and down by hundreds of feet.Then the plane disappeared from radar, crashing and killing all 157 people on board. Because of similarities with a plane crash off Indonesia in October that involved the Boeing 737 Max 8, the model has been grounded worldwide.Another angle: After the disaster in Indonesia, Boeing officials told American pilot unions that they planned to update the software for their 737 Max jets by about the end of 2018. Months later, the carriers are still waiting for a fix.Marian Kocner, a prominent Slovakian businessman, has been charged with ordering the murder of an investigative journalist, opening a new chapter in a crime that set off large protests and last year forced the resignation of Robert Fico, who was then the prime minister, and other top government officials. The journalist, Jan Kuciak, was fatally shot in his home in February 2018. His fiancée, Martina Kusnirova, was also killed there. Mr. Kuciak had been threatened by Mr. Kocner, a high-flying Slovakian businessman who was a subject of Mr. Kuciak’s reporting.In charging Mr. Kocner with paying a hit man $80,000 to kill the journalist, the authorities in Slovakia hope to regain a measure of the public trust that has been shattered by the killings and by the rife corruption that Mr. Kuciak and other reporters were working to expose. Mr. Kocner, who is currently in jail awaiting trial on unrelated fraud charges, has denied any illicit connections.  Looking ahead: The announcement of the charges came two days before a presidential election. The governing party — tainted by the scandal — is behind in the polls.U.S. Congress: The Senate, in a bipartisan rebuke, voted to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the southern border to fund his wall. The Senate vote was the first time Congress has blocked a presidential emergency declaration and almost certainly sets up Mr. Trump’s first veto. And the House voted 420-to-0 to demand the public release of the report that the special counsel, Robert Mueller, is assigned to submit to the attorney general. Climate change: Students in more than 100 countries will be protesting climate change today in what could be one of the largest demonstrations yet against global environmental policies. It all started with a shy 16-year-old in Sweden.E.U. Parliament: The president of the body, Antonio Tajani, incited outrage and apologized after putting a positive slant on Benito Mussolini, Italy’s fascist former leader. Germany: Volkswagen’s chief executive, Herbert Diess, apologized after using a phrase that echoed a Nazi-era slogan, “Arbeit macht frei,” or “Work sets you free,” emblazoned on the gates of Auschwitz. “Ebit macht frei,” he repeatedly told hundreds of managers at an internal company event. Ebit is an acronym for “earnings before interest and taxes.”Northern Ireland: Officials said that one former British soldier would be prosecuted on murder charges in connection with the massacre of unarmed civilians by British forces nearly 50 years ago in Londonderry, an event that came to be known as Bloody Sunday. Facebook: An executive regarded as the company’s No. 3 is leaving along with the head of its WhatsApp messaging service after disagreements with Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive, over his plan to integrate Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger into an overarching platform.Snow monsters: Every year, in a Japanese village in the Yamagata Prefecture, snow and ice draped over conifer trees create sculptural Godzilla-like figures, known as “juhyo,” that draw tourists from across the world. But climate change is beginning to diminish the phenomenon.Nigeria: The authorities called off a frantic, daylong search for survivors in a building that collapsed early Thursday in a part of Lagos known for poor urban planning. More than 35 people had been pulled from the slabs of concrete, and at least eight people have died. Balkans: Bosnia and Herzegovina’s security minister accused Croatia of concocting a plot intended to falsely paint Bosnia as a terrorist hotbed.2020 campaign: Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman and Democrat who came close to unseating Senator Ted Cruz in the midterm elections last year, announced he was jumping into the 2020 presidential race, entering an already crowded field of diverse candidates.Ancient history: With an analysis of DNA preserved in ancient skeletons on the Iberian Peninsula, scientists are peering into human prehistory in the region.Head fake: Thieves stole “The Crucifixion,” a painting by the Flemish artist Pieter Brueghel the Younger, from a church in a Northern Italian town on Wednesday. Or rather, they stole a worthless copy of it. Italy’s military police and the priest had been tipped off to their plans and replaced the original.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: This Guinness pie recipe is worthy of a celebration. (You may want a walk after, or a nap.)Cutting out plastic when you’re grocery shopping is almost impossible. Writing a list and using a bit of imagination might help.Playing an instrument can be a rewarding hobby, and many apps can help get you started.A reader this week asked to hear more about E. Barrett Prettyman, whose name is on the courthouse described in Wednesday’s Back Story. The courthouse is where Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, was sentenced.The Virginia-born Elijah Barrett Prettyman was a lawyer, professor and journalist before President Harry Truman nominated him to the prestigious U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He served from 1945 to 1962. From 1958 to 1960, he was chief judge.He was admired in judicial and governmental circles. Presidents Dwight Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy turned to him to resolve difficult legal issues. He overcame years of congressional resistance to effect changes in the D.C. court system.The U.S. Courthouse, home to the court he served on, was named for him in 1997, 16 years after his death.His son, E. Barrett Prettyman Jr., also had an illustrious legal career, playing a crucial backstage role in the Supreme Court’s unanimous school-desegregation decision.Andrea Kannapell, Briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth Williamson and Kenneth P. VogelWASHINGTON — The bad blood started early.In 2008, Neera Tanden, then a top aide on Hillary Clinton’s first presidential campaign, accompanied Mrs. Clinton to what was expected to be an easy interview at the Center for American Progress, the influential group founded by top Clinton aides. But Faiz Shakir, the chief editor of the think tank’s ThinkProgress website, asked Mrs. Clinton a question about the Iraq war, an issue dogging her candidacy because she had supported it.Ms. Tanden responded by circling back to Mr. Shakir after the interview and, according to a person in the room, punching him in the chest.“I didn’t slug him, I pushed him,” a still angry Ms. Tanden corrected in a recent interview.Ms. Tanden now leads the Center for American Progress, Mr. Shakir runs Bernie Sanders’s presidential campaign and the enmity between the two camps burst into the open last weekend. Mr. Sanders, angry about a video produced by ThinkProgress that ridicules his new status as one of the millionaires he has vilified on the campaign trail, sent a scorching letter to the center’s board, accusing Ms. Tanden of “maligning my staff and supporters and belittling progressive ideas.”The blowup is another reflection of the ideological divisions among Democrats, this time between a legacy Clinton organization and a liberal wing trying to move the party to the left to harness the energy of millennials. Mr. Sanders’s team remains convinced that the Democratic establishment worked behind the scenes to deprive him of the party’s nomination in 2016; his campaign has cast the group as beholden to corporate interests set on thwarting him in 2020.Ms. Tanden rejected that characterization and asserted in an email to Mr. Shakir that the center shares “the goals of unity.” Jodi Enda, the editor in chief of ThinkProgress, said that her website is editorially independent and that “we don’t have a favored candidate, and we don’t have a candidate who we disfavor.”Still, Ms. Tanden’s mother, Maya Tanden, says that her daughter “can be very aggressive.”“She’s not going to let anyone rule over her,” she said, “and she has loyalty to Hillary because Hillary is the one who made her.”“Those Bernie brothers are attacking her all the time, but she lets them have it, too,” Maya Tanden said. “She says Sanders got a pass” in 2016, “but he’s not getting a pass this time.”The Center for American Progress and its sister political arm, with a $60 million combined annual budget and 320 staff members, have played an outsize role in the Democratic Party for nearly two decades. Founded in 2003 by top advisers to Bill and Hillary Clinton, the organization has sought to rebrand itself as a brain trust for the anti-Trump resistance.Its donor rolls overlap substantially with those of the Clintons’ campaigns and foundation. The think tank has taken in millions from interests often criticized by liberals, including Wall Street financiers, big banks, Silicon Valley titans, foreign governments, defense contractors and the health care industry. Individual donors can ask to remain anonymous.Money to the Center for American Progress from the personal foundation of the Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg surged to $665,000 in 2018 from $15,000 in 2017, while Facebook fended off scrutiny for mishandling users’ personal data, fueling violence and providing a platform for Russian election interference.Last year, the center got $1 million from the family foundation of Jonathan Lavine, a managing partner at Bain Capital, and at least $1 million from the tech industry’s Silicon Valley Community Foundation. It also received $225,000 from the private foundation of a Walmart heir, Sam Walton.Ms. Tanden, whose salary was $397,000 in 2018, was an unpaid adviser to Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 campaign while running the think tank, and was considered a candidate for a top White House job had Mrs. Clinton won the presidency. Ms. Tanden says she has founded six new policy-intensive groups as the center’s president and increased its annual budget by 25 percent.“That’s what she does — she shows up at rich people’s places because she needs funds from them,” Ms. Tanden’s mother said. “That place runs on Neera Tanden.”Tom Daschle, a lobbyist and former South Dakota senator who is the chairman of the Center for American Progress’s board, said he has full confidence in Ms. Tanden, who he said brings credibility, stature and “enormous experience both managerially and around the issues.” He added that “there are people that are not as supportive of Neera’s leadership, and that’s natural.”From 2016 through last year, the center accepted nearly $2.5 million from the United Arab Emirates to fund its National Security and International Policy initiative, according to previously unreported internal budget documents. From the start, the decision to solicit money from the United Arab Emirates, an ally of Saudi Arabia with a problematic human rights record, fanned internal dissent. A Center for American Progress spokeswoman said on Monday night that it had decided in December to stop taking money from the country.Tensions boiled over in October, after the Saudi-born Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi was killed and dismembered at the order of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, according to an assessment by the C.I.A. Before the C.I.A.’s conclusion became public — but while the crown prince was widely suspected of ordering the killing — the center had pursued plans for a joint panel on “the U.S.-Saudi relationship in light of recent events,” and had invited the Saudi ambassador to the United States, Prince Khalid bin Salman, the crown prince’s brother, according to an internal email to executives.But the Saudi ambassador fled the country and the plan dissolved. Internal criticism of the Emirati donations leaked into the news media, prompting an in-house investigation that led to the firing of two staff members. One of them, Ken Gude, a longtime executive, is working with a lawyer on a wrongful dismissal lawsuit.In November 2015, after Ms. Tanden invited Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to a question-and-answer session at the center, a dozen staff members stood during an all-staff meeting and read a statement of protest. “Our goal is to promote humanity and shut down oppression and genocide and terrorism. Bringing in another head of state with a record of oppression would further push our mission away,” it read in part.In an email Ms. Tanden sent on the day of the Netanyahu visit, stolen and released by WikiLeaks, she told the think tank’s founder, John D. Podesta, that the “far left hates me” for hosting Mr. Netanyahu, but the invitation “may have sealed the deal with a new board member.” Ms. Tanden was wooing Mr. Lavine, a pro-Israel philanthropist.The next month, Ms. Tanden wrote a jubilant email to Mr. Podesta, telling him Mr. Lavine was joining the board. “So Netanyahu was worth it,” she added, with a smiley face emoji. Mr. Lavine no longer sits on the center’s board, but his foundation remains a big donor.“The Netanyahu event was arranged with the public and private support of the Obama administration, and the notion that it was done at the behest of any donor is preposterous,” a center spokeswoman said.“It’s difficult as a think tank to know exactly how to handle things” like the Netanyahu pressure, said Judd Legum, who was the founding editor of ThinkProgress. “You don’t want to only have people come in who agree with you,” he said, but “there were people who felt it wasn’t tough enough on Netanyahu, and I understood where they’re coming from.”Few rival Ms. Tanden for her bellicosity on Twitter. She has told James Zogby, a pro-Sanders pollster, that “an army will rise up against this bs”; threatened Starbucks’ chief executive, Howard Schultz, with a boycott if he runs for president; and traded insults for two years with Jill Stein, the 2016 Green Party presidential candidate viewed by Ms. Tanden as a spoiler.One recent night, Ms. Tanden feuded on Twitter with liberals over whether Mrs. Clinton condemned far-right hatemongers strongly enough more than two years ago. The online bickering raged for an hour, drawing trolls from both factions, when the woman originally targeted by Ms. Tanden’s tweets delivered a wake-up call: “neera, you’re responding to a graduate student on Twitter at 1:40 am.”Ms. Tanden, who rallied weeping staff members after Mrs. Clinton’s loss, has expertise on domestic policy that dates to the early 1990s. As an Obama administration official, she worked to pass the Affordable Care Act, and during the Trump administration, she has called the center to the ramparts during Republicans’ efforts to repeal it.Under Ms. Tanden’s leadership, the center started a lobbying and social media campaign to save the health care act, including building a web portal that relayed the stories of nearly 3,000 people whose coverage was in danger. Now, as many Democratic presidential candidates drift left toward “Medicare for all” plans like Mr. Sanders’s, the Center for American Progress is pushing its own plan, which reserves a role for private insurance companies, unlike the Sanders proposal.Last week, the center held an off-record briefing and made follow-up contacts with reporters, picking apart the details of Mr. Sanders’s plan. In a fund-raising email to supporters on Sunday night, Mr. Sanders said the briefing was an effort by the think tank “to stop Medicare for All and our progressive agenda.”Mr. Legum said that “from the beginning, the problem was there are all these little factions on the left, each caring about their own issues and their own agenda — and CAP was supposed to be a big umbrella.”Now, he added, “We’re in another period where there’s new energy, new perspectives and people who are once again skeptical of CAP.”Ms. Tanden acknowledged tensions with what she called “millennial agitators” in her party, but blamed Mr. Trump, who made “crazy, radical ideas seem more normal,” she said in the interview.Maya Tanden, Ms. Tanden’s mother, said her daughter was “sick of” the nonstop fund-raising and political squabbling. “She said, ‘Another two years and I’m gone, I don’t care what I do,’” Maya Tanden said.Neera Tanden said she has no such plans.“When Trump won, I was one of the better prepared people to deal with his victory. I righted this ship to be an effective response to him,” she said. “A place to come up with the ideas that would formulate the next generation of ideas.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. The U.S. partial government shutdown is over (for now), Venezuela faces an international ultimatum, and the Afghan war could be near its end. Here’s the latest: President Trump temporarily reopened the government, but the clock is ticking. He warned that he was ready to shut down parts of the government again or bypass Congress altogether if Republicans and Democrats can’t agree on funding for a border wall by Feb. 15. The question in the meantime is whether the divided government can produce any results.On the same day the president bowed to pressure, the special counsel indicted a decades-long adviser of his, Roger Stone, and revealed the most direct link yet between the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks’ effort to release hacked Democratic Party emails.Details: Here’s a profile of Mr. Stone — an eccentric Nixon apostle and self-described dirty trickster — and an explanation of what his indictment means. And here is a visual representation of the Trump campaign’s extensive contacts with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks. Analysis: The shutdown and the Stone indictment may have hurt the president’s leverage. According to some estimates, the American economy lost at least $6 billion during the 35-day stalemate. And Mr. Trump’s poll numbers were down, stirring concerns among Republican leaders about his ability to navigate the next two years.European countries including Britain, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain urged President Nicolás Maduro to schedule new elections within eight days.If Mr. Maduro doesn’t commit to fresh elections, the European governments say they will recognize the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, as interim president.Analysis: The ultimatum presents a new layer of uncertainty in a deepening crisis. Mr. Guaidó has urged protesters to keep the pressure on the government “if they dare to kidnap me.”Mr. Maduro, appearing to be striking a conciliatory tone, backed down from demanding that all American diplomats leave the country. Over the past year, the Trump administration has embarked on a global campaign to pressure allies to prevent Huawei and other Chinese companies from helping build out 5G networks.The U.S. has suggested to Poland that future deployments of American troops could hinge on whether the country works with Huawei. And in Germany, American officials warned that working with Huawei could pose a security risk to NATO.Why: The U.S. believes that whoever controls the high-speed 5G internet networks will have an economic, military and intelligence edge for much of this century. The Trump administration therefore calculates that Beijing — and companies perceived to be working for the Chinese government — must be shut out.What’s next? The U.S. campaign may complicate the round of trade talks with China that begin in Washington this week, particularly as Beijing seeks to free Huawei’s chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, who was arrested in Canada at America’s request.The U.S. and the Taliban wrapped up six days of negotiations to end the 17-year conflict in Afghanistan. Both sides reported progress — a first in nine years of intermittent peace efforts.Details: Though much remains to be ironed out, the deal would kick off a phased withdrawal of American troops in exchange for a Taliban cease-fire. The Taliban would also have to pledge not to allow international terrorist groups to use Afghanistan as a planning hub. How the Taliban would share power with the Afghan government remains to be resolved.Caution: Most observers don’t believe Afghan forces can stand up against the Taliban without American support.Fear: The idea of a U.S. troop withdrawal worries Afghan women, who fear that their rights will be taken away.  The toll: The war’s toll has been immense: At least 62,000 Afghan military and police officers have been killed, along with possibly as many Taliban — and more than 24,000 Afghan civilians over the last decade alone. One photographer set out to capture the makeshift prosthetics some Afghans use.Coming this week: Britain’s Parliament votes on amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan, and the U.S. Federal Reserve meets (but will probably not raise interest rates).Germany: A panel of various interest groups laid out a plan to end the country’s use of coal power within two decades.Brazil: A dam collapse that left 58 dead and 305 missing is the deadliest mining accident in the country’s history. Alarm over a second dam spread panic and raised outrage about the industry’s perceived impunity. Singapore: The city-state has landmarks of Brutalist architecture — built by a 1970s movement partly influenced by a similar one in postwar Britain — and they are incubating gritty, artsy subcultures that belie the image of tidy streets and often-authoritarian governance. Some of the landmarks are on the verge of being sold, prompting calls to save them. Facebook: Mark Zuckerberg plans to merge the social media platform’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Messenger — at a time when the company has been scarred by scandal. The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps but will allow users to communicate across the platforms.The Holocaust: On her way to visit Auschwitz, our reporter found “Heil Hitler” signs and other Nazi swag at a flea market in Poland, where regulations on such sales are rarely enforced.Spain: The authorities said they had found the body of a 2-year-old boy who fell into a well nearly two weeks ago. Gandhi: Around the world, the man who led India into independence is still revered as a peaceful revolutionary. But his halo has dimmed for the Hindu right and lower castes.Australian Open: Novak Djokovic beat Rafael Nadal for his 15th Grand Slam title, and Naomi Osaka became the first singles player from Japan to clinch a No. 1 ranking globally after defeating Petra Kvitova for her second Grand Slam title.In memoriam: Michel Legrand, the French pianist, arranger and composer of hundreds of film scores and songs, among them “The Windmills of Your Mind,” died at 86. #ThankGodIt’sMonday? A workplace culture has emerged in recent years that glorifies the hustle and encourages employees to put in long hours. Our technology reporter considers whether that’s sustainable.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: For a quick dinner, make soba noodles into a salad with edamame, carrots and spinach.You can silence notifications on your phone without missing the important ones.Intense exercise could reduce your interest in food, some studies suggest.Happy Data Privacy Day!Or maybe not so happy. In the years since the celebration was born in Europe and then adopted in the U.S. and Canada, digital privacy has become a mainstream concern.As someone who covers personal tech for a living, I’ve lost count of how many times hackers have breached companies’ computer systems and stolen customers’ credit card numbers, and worse. (Thanks, Equifax, Marriott and Facebook.)Digital privacy is no joke. If you do one thing to protect your data today — or this week, or this year — set aside a few hours to beef up the strength of your passwords.Make sure every password you use for logging in to a site or an app is unique and complex. Password management apps like 1Password or LastPass make it easy, by letting you use one master password to reach a vault of all of your passwords.Trust me, you’ll feel a lot better.Brian X. Chen, the lead consumer technology writer at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byFor years, BuzzFeed seemed to be leading the journalism industry toward a brave new future. Now that it has stumbled, the way ahead looks more old-school than ever.By Edmund LeeIllustration by Andrew Sondern/The New York TimesThe digital publishing industry took a big hit in recent days, when more than 1,000 employees were laid off at BuzzFeed, AOL, Yahoo and HuffPost. Vice Media started the process of laying off some 250 workers on Friday, and Mic, a site aimed at younger readers, axed much of its staff two months ago before a competitor bought it in a fire sale. Coupled with recent layoffs at Gannett, the company behind USA Today and other dailies nationwide, the crisis in the digital sphere suggested that the journalism business was damned if it embraced innovation and damned if it didn’t.The cuts at BuzzFeed were the most alarming. Wasn’t this the company that was supposed to have it all figured out? Didn’t its team of wizards, led by the M.I.T.-trained chief executive, Jonah Peretti, know tricks of the digital trade that lay beyond the imagination of fusty old print publishers?Chris Hayes, the author and MSNBC anchor, summed up the bleak outlook with a tweet that asked, “What if there is literally no profitable model for digital news?”The in-the-moment doomsaying was understandable. But look past the gloom, and a complicated narrative emerges that does not lend itself to a one-size-fits-all interpretation of What Went Wrong or a handy forecast of journalism’s future.While leading digital publishers have resorted to harsh measures, legacy titles such as The Washington Post, The Atlantic, The New Yorker and The New York Times have seen growth as they accommodate the habits of their increasingly digitally oriented readers.At the same time, a digital-native business, Vox Media, the owner of The Verge and Eater, turned a profit last year, its first as a large company, according to two people with knowledge of the matter who were not authorized to discuss it publicly. And a more recent digital upstart, Axios, a buzzy site for Beltway insiders created by the founders of Politico, expects a profit in 2019, according to its chief executive, Jim VandeHei.Even BuzzFeed may hit its financial marks this year. If it does, the reason will most likely be a combination of old-school business methods tried elsewhere (including layoffs), rather than its ability to crack some esoteric digital code.It was simpler in the days of print. Even when radio and television laid waste to certain newspapers and magazines, the industry as a whole racked up steady profits. Twentieth-century readers were more or less unchanging in their habits, so media executives did not have to revise their business models much from year to year.That has changed, to say the least.Mr. Peretti seemed to be on the right track with his reliance on sponsored posts to generate revenue before his reluctant pivot to banner ads last year. That money encouraged him to stick to his idea of creating free content that readers can’t resist sharing on social media. Hedging his bets, he varied BuzzFeed’s money stream by selling branded cookware in association with Wal-Mart and opening a toy store in Manhattan.The company’s revenue grew more than 15 percent in 2018 — not quite enough to stave off Mr. Peretti’s decision to cut about 220 of BuzzFeed’s roughly 1,500 employees. As he put it in a recent staff memo, “Unfortunately, revenue growth by itself isn’t enough to be successful in the long run.”Ben Thompson, an analyst who has become a favorite among the Silicon Valley set, argued that BuzzFeed had inadvertently devalued its content by mostly relying on the kindness of digital giants to distribute its articles.Facebook’s changes to its News Feed in recent years increased the visibility of posts from your aunts and uncles while playing down articles from professional publishers. That was no good for sites like BuzzFeed.“The only way to build a thriving business in a space dominated by an aggregator is to go around them, not to work with them,” Mr. Thompson wrote in his Jan. 28 newsletter.In BuzzFeed’s youth, Facebook was not the dominant traffic driver it is today, and online sharing was just as likely to occur away from social media platforms. (Remember email?) Five years into its existence, in 2011, the site got newsier, with the addition of Politico’s Ben Smith as its editor in chief, along with a team of editors and reporters. In 2015, Mr. Thompson, the analyst, called BuzzFeed “the most important news organization in the world.”After that, Mr. Peretti adjusted his approach again. He determined that Facebook had already built the pipes for distribution, so instead of trying to amass audiences around a single venue, like BuzzFeed.com, he went where the audience was: Facebook.That was back when Facebook was considered a natural ally for media organizations seeking millions of online readers, and before Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, was made to testify before skeptical lawmakers in Washington and Brussels.So publishers didn’t balk when Facebook asked them — as part of its plan to take on YouTube — to go big on video. Companies like BuzzFeed, Vox Media and Refinery29 had an additional incentive to go along with Facebook’s request: the ad dollars that had shifted online as viewers started to favor streaming services over traditional television.The plan proved difficult to monetize, however. Facebook wanted brevity, but it defied common sense to load a 15-second commercial in front of a 30-second clip, Mr. Peretti said in a November interview with The Times.In 2017, Facebook created a new section, Facebook Watch, that featured longer videos. The company also opened more of those videos to advertising last August. For publishers, it was an improvement, but still not enough.“They need to make a lot more progress to truly compensate for the value that media companies are creating for them,” Mr. Peretti said in the interview. He compared Facebook to cable operators like Comcast, which pay programmers to carry their shows. “Except the compensation isn’t like cable,” he added.As television viewers continued their migration to the web, big TV companies like NBCUniversal, Turner Broadcasting and Discovery Communications followed them, plowing hundreds of millions of dollars into digital companies. Now they would like to see a return on their investments. And they are getting impatient.It wasn’t supposed to be this hard for digital publishers.In 2011, when The Times drew criticism for its decision to charge online readers, creating a so-called paywall, BuzzFeed was taking off, thanks to its knack for harnessing the power of social networks. In that context, the paywall strategy struck media gurus as the last-ditch gambit of a slow-moving stalwart, and the conventional wisdom was that digital mastersmiths would soon outperform or perhaps even vanquish their print-beholden rivals.By the end of 2018, the picture looked vastly different. BuzzFeed generated more than $300 million in sales, while still bleeding money, and The Times was on a pace to exceed $650 million in digital revenue.A stormy sociopolitical climate played to the strengths of seasoned media companies. John Wagner, who handles ad spending for publisher properties for the media agency PHD, said that during the Trump presidency, advertisers had favored venerable publications like The Times, The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal. News sites of 21st-century vintage, on the other hand, have to keep proving themselves.“BuzzFeed has really good offerings,” Mr. Wagner said. But its listicles and quizzes, he added, may eventually fall out of favor. “Consumers are fickle, and they’ll move on to the next thing,” he said.Mr. VandeHei of Axios said media companies needed more than digital savvy to make it in the current cutthroat environment. “I think media is still a great business, if you run it like a damn business,” he said in an email.Mr. VandeHei recited a litany of plagues on the digital houses, such as taking investments from venture capitalists expecting big returns in a short time or tying audience growth to platforms like Facebook.With its reliance on sponsored newsletters, Axios has a business model wildly different from BuzzFeed’s. (“I’m an outlier,” Mr. VandeHei said.) But while a comparison of the two companies may not be apples to apples, the debate over journalism’s future comes down to which business model works better — or works at all.Axios generated more than $24 million in revenue last year while incurring an overall loss of $56,000, Mr. VandeHei said. He credited a simple reason for its success: “The audience for high-quality content is huge and voracious and growing.” And the company’s focus on newsletters means it is unaffected by the whims of Facebook.The Information, a San Francisco tech-news site founded in 2013, is another digital publisher that adopted an old-fashioned business model from the start: paid subscriptions.“Journalism has been paid for since its early days,” Jessica Lessin, the founder and chief executive of The Information, said in an interview. From her perspective, the tendency of news media executives to give their content away once they moved to the web was the result of something like amnesia. “We just forgot,” she said. “We all went online and threw that out.”Ms. Lessin, a former reporter for The Wall Street Journal, declined to disclose the exact number of readers who pay $399 annually, but said the publication had “tens of thousands of subscribers.” While that audience is relatively modest, it allowed her to double her staff last year to 26 journalists.“Subscription is a great business,” Ms. Lessin said. “We are covering and expanding at the pace we want to expand off subscription, since that revenue can be very predictable.”While BuzzFeed and HuffPost have remained anti-paywall, and Axios and The Information have depended on sponsorships or subscriptions, Vox Media has found a middle way.Jim Bankoff, the company’s chief executive, is more business oriented than his peers and rarely calls attention to himself. A former AOL executive, he has explored areas outside of traditional advertising as part of his approach. One result was a production agreement with Netflix for a series based on Vox’s explanatory journalism, “Explained.” The company has also generated revenue by building its conference business, getting into podcasting and licensing its content management system, Chorus.Last year, its revenue increased 20 percent to around $185 million, for a modest profit. But that doesn’t mean Vox has stumbled onto some wild innovation.“We don’t see ourselves as a digital media company,” Mr. Bankoff said. “I mean, is anybody only just that now? We’re a modern media company.”Jaclyn Peiser contributed reporting.Edmund Lee covers the media industry as it grapples with changes from Silicon Valley. Before joining The Times he was the managing editor at Vox Media’s Recode.  @edmundlee Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Calloway-Blatch and Lance BoothHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. The partial government shutdown is over — for now.President Trump signed a bill on Friday reopening the federal government for three weeks, but he said he was ready to renew the confrontation or to bypass Congress altogether if Republicans and Democrats didn’t agree on funds for a wall at the southern border by Feb. 15.The bill opened the way to paying the 800,000 federal workers who had been furloughed or had been working without pay. We talked with more than a dozen federal workers and contractors about how they survived the 35-day shutdown, and of the uncertainty they now face.According to Standard & Poor’s, the U.S. economy lost at least $6 billion during the shutdown — more than the $5.7 billion Mr. Trump was holding out for.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. Roger Stone, a former political adviser to President Trump, was indicted in the special counsel’s investigation after F.B.I. agents wearing ballistic vests and brandishing guns arrested him in a predawn raid of his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.The indictment states that a top Trump campaign official dispatched Mr. Stone, above, to get information from WikiLeaks about hacked Democratic emails, revealing the most direct link yet between parallel efforts by the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election using material stolen by Russians.Mr. Stone was charged with seven counts, including obstruction, making false statements and witness tampering.We mapped out the known interactions that Mr. Trump and at least 17 campaign officials and advisers had with Russian citizens and WikiLeaks, or their intermediaries, during the 2016 presidential campaign and transition.Some Republicans are recalculating Mr. Trump’s political prospects, given the deep damage he suffered from the shutdown and the possibility that the Russia investigation will grow only more painful for him.____3. Juan Guaidó, Venezuela’s opposition leader, attended a rally Friday, above, in his first public appearance since he declared himself interim president of the country. He told supporters to maintain pressure on the authorities “if they dare to kidnap me.”At the same time, President Nicolás Maduro, who had been furiously describing Mr. Guaidó as the lackey of an American-backed coup plot, appeared to strike a more conciliatory approach. On Saturday, Mr. Maduro backed down from demanding that American diplomats leave the country this weekend.Opposition lawmakers and analysts said Mr. Maduro may sense that loyalty to him among the security forces may be slipping as support grows for Mr. Guaidó, who earned the official recognition of the United States and more than 20 other countries.Our interviews with current and former military officers reveal a complicated struggle within the ranks over which leader to back.____4. The authorities in Florida  released the identities on Thursday of three of the five women who were killed by a gunman at a SunTrust Bank in Sebring, above, the day before.The authorities said the gunman made the women lie face down on the floor before he shot them in the back of the head, and then called the police to admit what he had done.The suspect, Zephen A. Xaver, 21, was arrested on Wednesday and charged with five counts of first-degree premeditated murder. The police said they didn’t understand Mr. Xaver’s motive; the Sebring police chief said Mr. Xaver didn’t know the victims and had no known connection to the SunTrust branch.Relatives of the two other victims asked that their names be withheld from the public, the police chief said, adding that he would honor those requests under the terms of a new crime victims’ law in Florida.____5. Record numbers of Americans understand that climate change is real and say the issue is personally important to them. Above, search teams after the Camp Fire in Paradise, Calif., last year.In a survey taken late last year, some 73 percent said global warming was happening — a jump of 10 percentage points from 2015 and three points since March. “I’ve never seen jumps in some of the key indicators like this,” one of the researchers said.Conclusive data has been accumulating, including recent studies showing unexpectedly rapid melting in Greenland and the Arctic, and far quicker ocean warming than previously understood.____6. Action at the Supreme Court. The justices voted 5 to 4 on Tuesday to allow the Trump administration to bar most transgender people from serving in the military while cases challenging the policy make their way to the court. Above, Jody Davis, a transgender woman who is trying to rejoin the National Guard.The court also said on Tuesday that it would review a New York City gun law, its first Second Amendment case in nearly a decade.The justices took no action on the Trump administration’s plans to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation, which almost certainly means the court won’t hear the administration’s challenge in its current term.____7. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, above, plans to integrate the social network’s vast messaging services: WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger.The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps, but their underlying technical infrastructure will be unified, according to four people involved in the effort.This could redefine how more than 2.6 billion people use the apps to connect with one another, our technology reporter notes, all while strengthening Facebook’s grip on users and raising antitrust, privacy and security questions.____8. In the world of entertainment: James McAvoy hosted “Saturday Night Live” this week, which featured Steve Martin in a pinstriped suit as Roger Stone.Now that the dust has settled from Tuesday’s announcement of Oscar nominees, our columnist examines what we can glean from who made it in and who didn’t.And our critic-at-large Wesley Morris talks about the academy’s obsession with racial reconciliation fantasies, from 1989’s “Driving Miss Daisy” to the recent “Green Book” and “The Upside.”____9. Novak Djokovic defeated Rafael Nadal for his seventh Australian Open championship this morning. It was the latest triumph in a thrilling career revival.And Naomi Osaka, above, bested Petra Kvitova in a riveting women’s final on Saturday.Her victory in Melbourne, after winning the U.S. Open in September, made Ms. Osaka the first woman since Jennifer Capriati in 2001 to win her first two major titles back to back.More into football? The week is going to be a big buildup to Super Bowl LIII, when the New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams face off.____10. Finally, don’t miss our Best Weekend Reads.This week, we talk to a laundry specialist who has washed clothes on tour for the likes of Madonna, U2 and Beyoncé; look at how the growing noise in the world’s oceans is threatening wildlife; and examine a culture of discrimination and retaliation at a highly classified Energy Department site in Nevada.We also have the tale of Kenneth Griffin, a hedge-fund billionaire who just paid a record $238 million for a penthouse he may rarely live in.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these nine new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have a great week.Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump agreed to reopen the federal government for three weeks while negotiations continued over border security, backing down after a monthlong standoff with Democrats over funding for his border wall.The decision paved the way for Congress to pass spending bills as soon as Friday. The stopgap measure will restore normal operations at a series of federal agencies until Feb. 15 and begin paying the 800,000 federal workers who have been furloughed or forced to work for free for 35 days.The plan includes no money for the wall and was essentially the same approach Mr. Trump rejected at the end of December. But he cautioned that the cease-fire might be only temporary.“We really have no choice but to build a powerful wall or steel barrier,” Mr. Trump said in the Rose Garden. “If we don’t get a fair deal from Congress, the government will either shut down on Feb. 15, or I will use the powers afforded to me under the laws and Constitution of the United States to address this emergency.”Airport delays this morning added to the urgency of a solution. La Guardia Airport in New York was closed to arriving flights, and a shortage of air traffic controllers triggered significant delays across the Northeast._____2. The special counsel, Robert Mueller, revealed the most direct link yet between the parallel efforts of the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton’s presidential bid.In a seven-count indictment against Roger Stone, above, an informal adviser to President Trump, the special counsel disclosed evidence that a top campaign official had instructed Mr. Stone to get information from WikiLeaks about thousands of hacked Democratic emails. That effort began well after it was widely reported that Russian intelligence operatives were behind the hack.The indictment makes no mention of whether Mr. Trump played a role, though Mr. Mueller did leave a curious clue about how high in the campaign the effort reached: A senior campaign official “was directed” by an unnamed person to contact Mr. Stone about additional WikiLeaks releases that might hurt the Clinton campaign, according to the court document.Who is Roger Stone, anyway? Here’s what we know about him and his colorful career._____3. Venezuela’s opposition leader made his first public appearance since he declared himself president, and told supporters to keep pressure on the authorities “if they dare to kidnap me.”The rally was peaceful and there was no indication Juan Guaidó would be arrested, as many feared.At the same time, President Nicolás Maduro took a more conciliatory approach than before and called for dialogue. The request appeared to signal that the standoff between the government and Mr. Guaidó may be shifting.Opposition talks with the military may be a factor. Venezuela’s top brass swore allegiance to Mr. Maduro, but an opposition lawmaker said her colleagues were holding discreet talks with military leaders in hopes that they could build enough support to get large factions to switch sides._____4. Jennifer Glover was assaulted by her fellow guards at a nuclear site in Nevada, she said.And instead of responding to her complaints, the government contractor she worked for eventually fired her.The encounter followed months of sexual harassment that she said began soon after she was hired. Even after reporting the abuse, she continued to face harassment and intimidation. She was reprimanded for calling out sick — to avoid her attackers, she said — and ordered to undergo psychiatric evaluations.“Work went from being so exciting to being a nightmare,” she said._____5. Mark Zuckerberg once vowed to keep WhatsApp and Instagram independent. Now he’s changing course to keep their users inside Facebook’s ecosystem.Facebook’s chief executive has mandated that the social network’s three messaging services — the third is Facebook Messenger — be knitted together. The three services will continue operating as stand-alone apps, but their underlying messaging infrastructure will be unified.The changes also raise questions of data privacy because of how user information may be shared among the services. Today, WhatsApp allows people to sign up with only a phone number. By contrast, Facebook and Facebook Messenger ask for users’ real names.Separately, Amazon’s new facial recognition technology had more difficulty identifying the gender of female and darker-skinned faces than similar services from IBM and Microsoft._____6. Can paid parental leave be too much of a good thing?The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is cutting its unusually generous paid leave in half — to six months — because yearlong leaves were impairing its work, it said. It is also adding a $20,000 stipend for new parents to spend on child care costs.The Gates Foundation’s experience highlights the challenges of devising effective family policies, especially in the U.S. — the only industrialized country not to offer paid leave.On top of questions about whether leave should be mandatory and who should pay for it, there has been little agreement on the right length of time. International evidence points to some answers: Around six months seems to be the magic number. And paid leave is not enough: Financial assistance for child care has a bigger effect on women’s ability to keep working._____7. It was nothing but a box of paperwork.In 1979, a Navy man credited with starting the quirky Hawaiian Iron Man Triathlon was reassigned to the mainland. He was looking for someone to run the third edition of the race — and handed off some papers to a couple who said they would do it.They went on to make the Ironman into an iconic test of endurance and one of the world’s premier sports brands. A Chinese conglomerate paid $650 million for it in 2015. Above, bikes awaiting their riders at the 2018 Ironman World Championship Triathlon.And because of that box, all these years later, the fight over who rightfully owns the race endures.Separately, have you noticed the N.B.A.’s scoring explosion this season? It has to do with the league’s emphasis on pace and 3-pointers, combined with an edict to make defenders back off._____8. Roy Wood Jr. is best known as a correspondent on “The Daily Show With Trevor Noah.”But he has made a niche for himself as one of the country’s foremost comic voices on social issues — especially those affecting African-Americans.He almost didn’t make it this far: He grew up among gang members in Birmingham, Ala., and was arrested in his junior year of college for stolen credit cards. His probation officer encouraged him to keep doing comedy. Tonight, his first Comedy Central special premieres.In the special, Mr. Wood jokes that the national anthem controversy is especially absurd because the tune is based on a British song: “Now, you’re running around telling stolen people in a stolen land that they should stand for a stolen song?”And no matter how much time you have this weekend, we have TV recommendations for you._____9. Ninety-nine percent of the U.S. population lives under light-polluted skies.After one math teacher from Washington, D.C., visited the country’s first International Dark Sky Reserve, 1,400 square miles in Idaho, he wondered how to make sure people know places like it existed.“A lot of people who live in an urban setting and who look like me will never get to see the beauty of our world in its natural state,” he told our graphic journalist.“There is no lock on the door. Nobody is trying to keep people of color out. But not having the opportunity to know about it, that’s a lock.”_____10. Finally, let’s play catch-up.Do you know which country’s economy grew 6.6 percent last year, its slowest pace of growth since 1990? What the Brexit “backstop” is all about?Test your knowledge of the week’s headlines.Have a relaxing weekend._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt Flegenheimer and Alexander BurnsFor a moment in August, an event hall in Texas teemed with hope, taquitos and unity.It was a border-town stop for Beto O’Rourke’s Senate campaign, but another Democratic politician commanded particular attention: Gina Ortiz Jones, a history-making congressional candidate — gay, Filipina-American, an Iraq war veteran — hoping to turn a majority-Hispanic district blue. “Really special person,” Mr. O’Rourke said, as Ms. Jones stood and waved.But soon, a county chairwoman posed an uncomfortable question. Mr. O’Rourke had not endorsed Ms. Jones. In fact, he had elevated her Republican opponent, Representative Will Hurd, with frequent praise and, most memorably, a live-streamed bipartisan road trip that helped jump-start their midterm campaigns. Would Mr. O’Rourke support the Democrat?He would not.“This is a place where my politics and my job and my commitment to this country come into conflict,” Mr. O’Rourke said. “I’m going to put country over party.”Some supporters of Ms. Jones saw it differently: Beto O’Rourke was once again putting Beto O’Rourke first.Five months later, as Mr. O’Rourke considers a run for president, his decision not to back Ms. Jones lays bare the go-it-alone streak that has defined his career, separating him from a modern Democratic Party that has prized near-uniform opposition to Republicans in Washington. While supporters view his above-the-fray message as the foundation of his appeal, he has left important Democratic constituencies wondering if he can be fully trusted as an ally.“Beto-first politics,” said Jess Morales Rocketto, a Democratic operative who worked for Hillary Clinton in 2016. “He was concerned about Beto. I’m not sure he was concerned about building the future of Democratic politics.”In Texas’ 23rd Congressional District, his choice was more than symbolic. Mr. Hurd won by fewer than 1,000 votes, and many voters and local activists hold Mr. O’Rourke — whose success helped lift down-ballot candidates across the state — largely responsible for Ms. Jones’s defeat.“All I kept thinking was, wait, Beto is supposed to be helping us because he’s a Democrat,” said Rosey R. Abuabara, the leader of TX-23 Indivisible, which worked to oust Mr. Hurd. “I really felt like Beto was just getting in my way.”Mr. O’Rourke’s aides noted that his campaign — and its sprawling grass-roots operation — had been enormously helpful to the party’s cause, sharing voter information with fellow Democrats, opening hundreds of campaign offices and inviting other candidates to speak at his well-attended events.“Beto fully invested in building the future of Democratic politics across Texas,” his spokesman, Chris Evans, said in an email, adding that the campaign’s efforts would serve as a foundation “for all future Democratic campaigns in the state.”Yet even some admirers of Mr. O’Rourke have struggled to reconcile the snub of Ms. Jones, particularly in a year when female and nonwhite candidates like her helped lift Democrats to a House majority. Though Mr. O’Rourke stayed neutral, Ms. Jones drew high-wattage help in the race, including from prominent Texas Democrats like Julián Castro, the former housing secretary who is running for president, and Wendy Davis, the former candidate for governor and abortion-rights activist.Asked whether Mr. O’Rourke had a special responsibility to support a female candidate of color in this Democratic moment, Ms. Davis sounded almost anguished.“It’s really hard to say,” she said, adding that she did not mean to “back-seat drive” a friend’s decision-making. “I would feel that special duty. I personally would feel that. Beto’s not me, and I’m not Beto.”Mr. O’Rourke’s very presence as a would-be presidential contender for 2020 is an issue of heated debate within the party. He is a prolific fund-raiser who proved he can energize younger voters, and some early polls place him third behind Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Senator Bernie Sanders, well ahead of many more decorated politicians. But he is also a relatively inexperienced lawmaker who lost his Senate race against Ted Cruz.For close watchers of Mr. O’Rourke’s rise, his approach to Ms. Jones’s contest captured the twin pillars of his political worldview: He has an instinct for performative campaigning, reaching for multiplatform connection to voters but often lurching toward extreme oversharing. (Mr. O’Rourke was widely mocked recently after turning the camera on his own dental appointment.)And he has often defied the wishes of his fellow Democrats, especially traditional party leaders, who have eyed him warily since he challenged a Democratic incumbent in 2012 to reach Congress in the first place.Through a fluke of weather, timing and internet trendsetting, Mr. Hurd sits at the intersection of it all. Until March 2017, he and Mr. O’Rourke had been friendly enough as district neighbors, but never especially close. Then, after a snowstorm grounded their flights from Texas to Washington, Mr. O’Rourke suggested they drive instead — and record themselves for all 1,600 miles, answering questions from followers along the way.Alone in their rented Chevy Impala, they sang along to Willie Nelson, hashed out health care and trade policy and made a late-night doughnut run in Tennessee, attracting hundreds of thousands of viewers and wide-scale media coverage. Newt Gingrich called in to salute them. Mark Zuckerberg chimed in approvingly on Facebook.“Our party leadership is probably not super excited that we’re doing this,” Mr. O’Rourke said at one point.He was half right. Democrats in Washington, who had eyed Mr. Hurd’s seat as a prime pickup opportunity after Mrs. Clinton carried the district in 2016, winced at the sight of Mr. O’Rourke bolstering Mr. Hurd’s reputation for bipartisanship. Republicans were delighted to have a high-profile showcase for Mr. Hurd’s personality and moderate image.His congenial political brand helped him establish a consistent lead over Ms. Jones in private polling, giving pause to some national groups, like the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, about investing in the race.“It was a huge boost for us,” Matt Gorman, the communications director for the National Republican Congressional Committee during the midterms, said of the road trip. “That thing went totally viral.”Mark McKinnon, a veteran of Texas politics who was an adviser to George W. Bush, said by email that the road trip became a “life preserver for Hurd and launchpad for Beto.”Mr. O’Rourke and his team seemed to recognize this. The ride registered as his campaign’s unofficial kickoff. And he was quick to invoke his relationship with Mr. Hurd, to deflect attacks from Mr. Cruz that he was too far left for Texas, and to burnish his self-styled standing as a high-minded antidote to the Capitol’s seemingly intransigent partisanship.“I know how disappointing it is to people,” Mr. O’Rourke said in an interview last summer, explaining his decision not to support Ms. Jones. “It’s disappointing for very legitimate, really important reasons. Like, I also want to be in the majority.”He added that Ms. Jones would make an excellent congresswoman if elected.Party officials and activists kept up the pressure, cornering him at rallies and fund-raisers, including one in San Antonio where Mr. O’Rourke raised his right hand in a mock ceremony and pledged not to make Mr. Hurd “look cool” even as he refused to oppose him.“Basically I told him he needed to dance with who brung him,” said Mary Bell Lockhart, the chairwoman of the Brewster County Democratic Party. “And it was primarily Democrats.”Mr. O’Rourke’s supporters insist he can be counted on to pursue Democratic priorities, while noting that his relationship with Mr. Hurd allowed the two to collaborate on shared causes like border policy. (Mr. Hurd has been a rare Republican opposing the construction of a wall.)But Mr. O’Rourke’s history with the party is more complicated than it appeared in a binary race against Mr. Cruz, whom Democrats could generally agree to loathe. He was known in Washington for declining to pay dues to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. In 2016, he voted against Nancy Pelosi to lead the Democratic caucus, supporting Tim Ryan, a centrist from Ohio.“We are all products of our environment,” said Pete Gallego, a former Democratic congressman who lost his seat to Mr. Hurd in 2014. “He has found tremendous success by shaking things up and by not being part of the party apparatus.”After Ms. Jones won the Democratic nomination for the seat, she and Mr. O’Rourke had a cordial conversation by telephone. Mr. O’Rourke neither pledged to help Ms. Jones nor told her directly that he would be withholding his support, according to people briefed on the call.In late June, Ronald Smith, a liberal activist in Mr. Hurd’s district, emailed Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign demanding to know: “Has Beto endorsed Gina Ortiz Jones? If not, when will he endorse her?” Mr. Smith said he wanted “a team player for my next Democratic senator.”An O’Rourke campaign representative offered a noncommittal reply in an email reviewed by The New York Times: “We are evaluating some local and regional races at this time.”By the summer, aides to Mr. O’Rourke had made clear to Ms. Jones’s campaign that he would not support her candidacy, three Democrats familiar with the exchange said. Mr. O’Rourke valued his relationship with Mr. Hurd and was mentioning it frequently on the campaign trail, as he sought to win crossover support from right-of-center voters.Ms. Jones, who has said she is likely to run again in 2020, declined through an aide to be interviewed about Mr. O’Rourke.Mr. O’Rourke’s defenders note that several Democrats benefited from his stronger-than-expected showing against Mr. Cruz, helping the party flip congressional seats in the Houston and Dallas areas.But in no other swing district was Mr. O’Rourke’s allegiance in question. Mr. O’Rourke carried the 23rd District even as Mr. Hurd narrowly won re-election there. In the section of the district that spills into Bexar County, home to San Antonio, Mr. O’Rourke outperformed Mr. Cruz by about 3,900 votes, a review of precinct-level election results found. The same set of precincts voted for Mr. Hurd over Ms. Jones by nearly 4,700 votes. Mr. Hurd won the district by just over 900 votes.“We know exactly what the Beto bump was and it was amazing,” said Mr. Smith, the liberal activist. “But my assessment was, for Democrats, as well as we did this last election cycle, we would have had one more seat if Beto had been on board with Gina Ortiz Jones.”Kitty Bennett contributed research.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.The U.S. pushes allies to block Huawei, Venezuela faces mounting international pressure and India struggles to keep troublemaking monkeys in line. Here’s the latest:Over the past year, the Trump administration has embarked on a global campaign to pressure allies to prevent Huawei and other Chinese firms from helping build out 5G networks.The U.S. has suggested to Poland that future deployments of American troops could hinge on whether the country works with Huawei. And in Germany, American officials warned that working with Huawei could pose a security risk to NATO.Why: The U.S. believes that whoever controls the high-speed 5G internet networks will have an economic, military and intelligence edge for much of this century. The Trump administration has therefore adopted a zero-sum calculus in which Beijing — and companies perceived to be working for the Chinese government — must be shut out.What’s next? The U.S. campaign may complicate the round of trade talks with China beginning in Washington later this week, particularly as Beijing seeks to free Huawei’s chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, who was arrested in Canada at the request of the U.S.President Trump temporarily reopened the government on Friday, but the clock is ticking. He warned that he was ready to renew the confrontation or bypass Congress altogether if Republicans and Democrats couldn’t agree on funding for a border wall by Feb. 15.On the same day the president bowed to pressure, the special counsel indicted one of his longtime advisers, Roger Stone, revealing the most direct link yet between the Trump campaign and the WikiLeaks effort to release hacked emails from the Democratic Party.Here’s a profile of Mr. Stone and an explanation of what his indictment means. And here’s a visual representation of how many times the Trump campaign had contact with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks.Analysis: The combination of the shutdown and the Stone indictment may have damaged the president’s leverage. According to some estimates, the American economy lost at least $6 billion during the 35-day stalemate. And Mr. Trump’s poll numbers were dragged down, stirring concerns among Republican leaders about his ability to navigate the next two years of a divided government.European countries — including the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain and Britain — urged President Nicolás Maduro to hold new elections within eight days.If Mr. Maduro doesn’t commit to fresh elections, the European governments will recognize the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, as the interim president of Venezuela.Analysis: The ultimatum presents a new layer of uncertainty in a deepening political crisis. Mr. Guaidó, who proclaimed himself the legitimate leader of the country, urged protesters to keep the pressure on the government “if they dare to kidnap me.”Mr. Maduro has done an about-face and appeared to be striking a more conciliatory tone. He backed down from demanding that all American diplomats leave the country. And his government has refrained from detaining Mr. Guaidó as support for the opposition leader grows at home and abroad.The U.S. and the Taliban wrapped up six days of negotiations to end the 17-year conflict in Afghanistan. Both sides reported progress — a first in nine years of intermittent peace efforts.Details: Though much remains to be ironed out, the deal would kick off a phased withdrawal of American troops in exchange for a Taliban cease-fire. The Taliban would also have to pledge not to allow international terrorist groups to use Afghanistan as a planning hub. How the Taliban would share power with the Afghan government remains to be resolved.Caution: Most observers don’t believe Afghan forces have the ability to stand up against the Taliban without American support, leaving any truce in a precarious state once the U.S. leaves.Another angle: The toll of the war has been immense — at least 62,000 Afghan military and police lives, and possibly as many Taliban lives, and more than 24,000 Afghan civilians killed over the last decade alone. One photographer set out to capture the makeshift prosthetics some Afghans use.Coming this week: The British Parliament votes on amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s latest Brexit plan, and the U.S. Federal Reserve meets (but will probably hold off on raising interest rates).Philippines: Two bombs exploded at a cathedral on the southern island of Jolo, killing 20 people and wounding many others, officials said. The attack came days after voters had rejected a bid to include the Jolo in a Muslim autonomous area, sparking fears of separatist reprisals.Indonesia: At least 68 people have died and nearly 7,000 have taken refuge in emergency shelters on the island of Sulawesi after floods, landslides and a tornado battered the region last week.Facebook: Mark Zuckerberg plans to merge all of the social media platform’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Messenger — at a time when the company has been scarred by scandal. The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps but will be more unified, allowing users to communicate across the platforms.Brazil: A dam in southeastern town of Brumadinho collapsed, leaving 34 people dead and almost 300 missing in the deadliest mining accident in the country’s history.Gandhi: Around the world, the man who led India into independence is still revered as a peaceful revolutionary. But his halo has dimmed for the Hindu right and lower castes.Germany: A panel drawn from the power industry, environmental movement, miners and local interest groups laid out a plan to end the country’s use of coal power within two decades, the most significant national attempt yet to reduce carbon emissions.The Holocaust: On her way to visit Auschwitz, our reporter found “Heil Hitler” signs and other Nazi swag at a flea market in Poland, where laws regulating such sales are little enforced.Australian Open: In a stunning career revival, Novak Djokovic beat Rafael Nadal for his 15th Grand Slam title. And Naomi Osaka became the first Asian player to clinch a No. 1 ranking globally after defeating Petra Kvitova for her second Grand Slam title.Amazon: “Vine Voices” — trusted product reviewers the company has designated since 2007 — have become a powerful yet secretive force on the e-commerce platform.Taj Mahal: In an effort to stop mischievous monkeys from attacking tourists near the famous landmark, Indian security guards are turning to an unusual weapon of choice — slingshots.#ThankGodIt’sMonday? A new workplace culture has emerged in recent years that glorifies the hustle and encourages employees to put in long hours. Our technology reporter considers whether that’s sustainable.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: For a quick dinner, make soba noodles into a salad with edamame, carrots and spinach.You can silence notifications on your phone without missing the really important ones.Intense exercise could reduce your interest in food, some studies suggest.Happy Data Privacy Day!Or, maybe not so happy. In the years since the celebration was born in Europe and then adopted in the U.S. and Canada, digital privacy has become a mainstream concern.This writer covers personal tech for a living. And I’ve lost count of how many times hackers have breached companies’ computer systems and stolen customer’s credit card numbers, and worse. (Thanks, Equifax, Marriott and Facebook.)Digital privacy is no joke. If you do one thing to protect your data today — or this week, or this year — set aside a few hours to beef up the strength of your passwords.Make sure every password you use for logging in to a site or an app is unique and complex. Password management apps like 1Password or LastPass make it easy, by letting you use one master password to access a vault of all your passwords.Trust me, you’ll feel a lot better.Brian X. Chen, the lead consumer technology writer at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byMediatorBy Jim RutenbergUnder Article 6, Paragraph 1 of Saudi Arabia’s Anti-Cyber Crime Law, the following is punishable by up to five years in prison: “Production, preparation, transmission, or storage of material impinging on public order, religious values, public morals, and privacy, through the information network or computers.”Think “First Amendment.” Then invert it.Last week, we learned that the Kingdom had alerted Netflix that it had violated the statute with an episode of its comedy show “Patriot Act,” starring Hasan Minhaj, a comedian and American Muslim. How? Mr. Minhaj dared to question Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, both for the C.I.A.’s conclusion he ordered the murder of the Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi and for Saudi war atrocities in Yemen.Maybe the Saudi complaint wasn’t all that shocking. Like any authoritarian monarch worth his bone saw, Prince Mohammed doesn’t brook criticism, which is why he has overseen the Saudis’ increased jailing of journalists, critics and rivals.The shock came with Netflix’s supine compliance. After pulling the episode from its Saudi feed, the streaming service told The Financial Times it was simply responding to “a valid legal request.”Add another 10 paces to America’s retreat from its place at the forefront of free speech and political expression.It was but one episode in one country. And Saudis who were burning to see it could still find it on YouTube.But each small step for dictatorial crackdowns abetted by American leaders — be they in politics or business — is one giant leap for the forces that are now so successfully stanching free expression and dissent across the world.L’affaire Netflix raises a big question: As America’s new media overlords grow at a stunning rate, expanding into every nook and cranny of the globe where governments will let them in, are they compelled to defend universal values like free speech that their home country was founded on?Increasingly, it seems, profit, expansion and perhaps a wee bit of cowardice are trumping the very principles that made the United States entertainment and news industries what they are — and that made a Netflix possible in the first place.I’m not so naïve that I don’t understand that this is the cost of becoming a dominant media player now, when success is measured by how many more hundreds of millions of users a company can attract.“Stock price is measuring expected future earnings and those turn on global user numbers,” said Sam Blatteis, the former public policy lead for Google and YouTube in the Gulf and now chief executive for MENA Catalysts, a Middle East government affairs consulting firm.Growth lies in emerging markets, many of which may be run by less-than-savory characters ruling by less-than-savory means.“Companies have to walk this tightrope between their cosmopolitan values on one side and realizing that going abroad into many emerging markets is a contact sport,” Mr. Blatteis, speaking from Dubai, told me last week. “You have to roll up your sleeves and that can involve adapting and compromise.”That’s why Apple acquiesced to China’s demand that it remove various apps that bypassed the country’s censors as well as the news apps of The New York Times.It’s why Hollywood pulled back from making films critical of China (getting a bounty of Chinese movie financing in return).At the risk of hurting Mark Zuckerberg’s feelings, it’s why Facebook has agreed to demands from countries like Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and Pakistan to restrict access to posts deemed illegal because they criticized those countries’ leaders or founders.And it’s why, after Prince Mohammed said he would end a 35-year ban on movie theaters in the kingdom, entertainment moguls including Ari Emanuel, Robert A. Iger, and Mr. Murdoch feted him last spring at intimate dinners around Los Angeles, despite news of repression in the kingdom and civilian deaths in Yemen.Then came the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, who wrote columns for The Washington Post that were critical of the crown prince. According to United States intelligence, Prince Mohammed had ordered Mr. Khashoggi’s death, which his men carried out with slasher-flick aplomb, reportedly using a bone saw to dismember his body.That wasn’t enough for President Trump, who sowed doubt about the intelligence conclusion while praising Saudi Arabia for “keeping oil prices at reasonable levels.” The message on human rights and the First Amendment: Make me an offer.Mr. Trump didn’t invent realpolitik. But previously, even when American actions contradicted its vision of itself, presidential paeans to democratic norms carried at least symbolic weight.Netflix had an opportunity to send a different message.“Even more because Trump and the White House have been so much putting money over lives, frankly, I’d hoped that this was where American businesses could take a stand,” said The Post’s global opinions editor Karen Attiah, who edited Mr. Khashoggi’s columns. “Netflix really had a chance to stand up for values and for Hasan.”At the very least, she said, Netflix should have never called the Saudis’ legal request “valid,” even if it believed it had to comply to maintain its presence in the country.Netflix wouldn’t answer my question about what made the request “valid.” In a statement to me, its general counsel, David Hyman, said, “Our programs push the boundaries on important social and other issues in many places around the world.” But, he added, “to run a global service” the company has to abide by foreign laws “even when we disagree with them.” That is, a Netflix that compromises with rogue-ish regimes is better for free expression than no Netflix at all.One person outside the production, who was briefed on the deliberations in real time, told me Netflix discussed potential problems the episode would cause in Saudi Arabia before Mr. Minhaj filmed it, and raised the idea of scuttling it. This person would only speak on condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the private discussions. An executive at the company, speaking on condition of anonymity for the same reason, said it only shared potential legal consequences with Mr. Minhaj’s team as due diligence, noting it ultimately went forward with the show and its distribution in Saudi Arabia.Until it didn’t.There have been other times when American businesses put American values above their bottom lines. After Steven Van Zandt, the E Street Band guitarist, led a musicians’ boycott of South Africa to protest apartheid, corporations including Coca-Cola, General Electric and GTE followed suit by withdrawing from the country.It’s true that the entertainment industry did not bathe itself in glory during Hitler’s early years.But throughout the war and afterward, they, along with many other major American corporations, joined the robust national effort to defeat the Nazis and promote American values throughout Europe, which helped the United States win the Cold War.It’s a little hard to imagine such a national effort coming together now.Maybe that’s partly because the major social media and entertainment platforms have such global scale that they’re almost their own borderless governments.“It seems to be a moment in the evolution of the corporation that it starts to become akin to a world actor in its own right,” Nicholas J. Cull, a professor at the University of Southern California’s Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism who has written extensively on the American information effort during the Cold War. When it comes to their home country, he said, “It’s, ‘We’re sympathetic, but we have our own set of interests.’”The media behemoths would be wise to remember that their future growth will rely on having the same liberties that fostered their creation.I’m reminded of a line from the Netflix-BBC One co-production of “Watership Down,” based on Richard Adams’s allegorical novel about a noble herd of rabbits’ pursuit of a peaceful homeland. After their leader Hazel helps another group of rabbits escape a totalitarian warren, he tells them, “You have fought so hard to earn your freedom, but now you must fight to keep it, because the battle for liberty is one which has no end.”Take heed, Netflix.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byPor Marina FrancoBuen martes, bienvenido al boletín diario de The New York Times en Español. Si aún no estás suscrito, puedes darte de alta en este enlace.¿Tienes sugerencias? ¿Quieres hacernos llegar tu opinión? Escríbenos a esta dirección.• ‘Una negación de la historia’: los guatemaltecos están en alerta por una posible amnistía a violadores de derechos humanos. Mañana el Congreso de Guatemala podría decidir que más de treinta soldados, oficiales del ejército e integrantes de patrullas de autodefensa detenidos por delitos de lesa humanidad queden libres y que se suspendan miles de casos judiciales por violaciones de derechos humanos durante la guerra civil. Hablamos con juristas para entender por qué los legisladores propusieron esta reforma a meses de una elección y con familiares de víctimas sobre qué significaría para ellos que sea aprobada la reforma a la Ley de Reconciliación Nacional.• Denuncias en Colombia por la objeción presidencial a una ley sobre los acuerdos de paz. Después de que el presidente Iván Duque anunciara su rechazo parcial a una legislación clave para que funcione el tribunal especial de paz JEP, diversas figuras colombianas mandaron ayer una carta a la ONU en la que dicen que Duque está intentando “lesionar gravemente la implementación del acuerdo” alcanzado en 2016 con las Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia que puso fin a un conflicto de más de cinco décadas. Entre los firmantes de la carta están el exvicepresidente Humberto de la Calle, el exjefe guerrillero y ahora líder político Rodrigo Londoño, así como académicos y activistas como Luz Marina Bernal.• Cristina Fernández de Kirchner es acusada otra vez (ahora de ocultar documentos). La expresidenta y senadora argentina, probable candidata presidencial para las elecciones de octubre, fue imputada ayer por encubrimiento y ocultamiento de documentos históricos que fueron encontrados en oficinas suyas allanadas el año pasado como parte de otro caso judicial en su contra. Fernández de Kirchner ya enfrenta otras siete causas ante el juez Claudio Bonadio por asociación ilícita y lavado de dinero, entre otros delitos que se le imputan.“La explicación de la calamidad cubana ha sido el ineficaz modelo económico de planificación centralizada, empresas estatales y colectivización agraria que sus dirigentes han implementado pese a su fracaso a nivel mundial”.El economista especializado en asuntos latinoamericanos Carmelo Mesa-Lago postula las principales razones del fracaso económico en la isla y propone que Cuba adopte un modelo similar al que existe en Vietnam y China, que tienen una economía de mercado socialista.¿Cómo es el día a día en la tarea de fotografiar al presidente estadounidense? Pocas personas conocen tan bien las pequeñas y grandes complejidades de este trabajo como Doug Mills, fotorreportero de The New York Times que ha captado a seis mandatarios de Estados Unidos. En entrevista, Mills describe los beneficios inesperados de fotografiar a Donald Trump. Por ejemplo: “No importa dónde veas a Trump o bajo qué luz esté”, dice, “sabes de inmediato que es él”.• La hora de la verdad para el futuro del brexit. La separación del Reino Unido y la Unión Europea está programada para el 29 de marzo, pero el gobierno de Theresa May sigue buscando negociar el plan que determinará cómo se relacionarán diplomática y comercialmente los británicos y el bloque continental. May viajó ayer de emergencia a Estrasburgo [en inglés] para pedir ligeros cambios en temas como la frontera irlandesa —Irlanda seguirá siendo parte del bloque e Irlanda del Norte, no— e intentar convencer así a los parlamentarios británicos de respaldar el proyecto en la votación de hoy.Es muy poco probable que eso suceda. Mañana habrá otra votación sobre si continuar con el “divorcio” sin un acuerdo que rija las relaciones futuras; de ganar el no, el jueves los parlamentarios votarán si solicitan posponer el brexit. Un posible aplazamiento difícilmente ayudará a resolver las crisis que ya han surgido entre amistades y familias [en inglés].• Lo que necesitas saber del Boeing 737 Max 8 después de la caída del avión de Ethiopia Airlines. Este tipo de aeronaves hacen más de 8500 viajes cada semana alrededor del mundo, pero la muerte de 157 personas el domingo, el segundo siniestro en menos de un año con este modelo de Boeing, ha provocado alertas en todo el planeta. Mientras se revisa la caja negra para deteminar por qué se cayó el avión de Ethiopia Airlines, puedes examinar qué aerolíneas con esas aeronaves en su flota han suspendido su uso y ver sitios como FlighStats para saber si algún vuelo que tengas programado usa ese Boeing.• Los verdaderos caminos de internet son oceánicos. Cientos de miles de kilómetros de cableado submarino unen a los continentes para satisfacer nuestras demandas de comunicación y entretenimiento en línea. De Hong Kong a Londres y, en un nuevo proyecto, de Chile a Estados Unidos: así se construyen y tienden los cables que hoy conectan nuestras vidas con todo el mundo.• Facebook ahora pretende ser el modelo de la privacidad. Mark Zuckerberg, director ejecutivo de la empresa pensada para compartir información en público, anunció la semana pasada que de ahora en adelante la red social promoverá la mensajería privada con mayor encriptación. El anuncio fue hecho después de escándalos por la filtración de datos a empresas como Cambridge Analytica y de la venta de información de Facebook a otras compañías.• Los salones del automóvil recurren a simuladores y realidad virtual. Las exhibiciones automovilísticas no quieren volverse irrelevantes, así que han incorporado dosis de tecnología como muestras de empresas emergentes dedicadas a la seguridad vehicular y nuevas experiencias para probar los vehículos, incluyendo aplicaciones interactivas.• Las tiendas minoristas buscan mejorar su servicio al cliente... con reconocimiento facial virtual. La nueva apuesta para competir con las ventas por internet es renovar la experiencia en tiendas físicas; en una reciente convención, compañías como Saks hablaron de programas de reconocimiento facial [en inglés] que les deje acceder inmediatamente al perfil e historial de los compradores, así como de métodos de geolocalización para enviar mensajes de texto con promociones a quienes están cerca de una sucursal.• ¿Ya lograste cortar el cordón umbilical financiero? En los años noventa la imagen de muchos treintañeros, sobre todo en Estados Unidos, era de personas financieramente estables con su propio departamento y encaminados a empezar una familia. Pero los milénials que hoy tienen treinta y tantos están lejos de tener independencia monetaria: un estudio reciente arroja que más de la mitad de ellos no pueden sobrellevar su vida diaria sin algo de ayuda financiera de sus padres. ¿A qué se debe esta nueva realidad financiera?La última tienda Blockbuster sigue más que viva: la sucursal en Oregon, Estados Unidos, sigue rentando películas y series en DVD y Blu-ray, pero incluso se ha vuelto un sitio de peregrinaje. La noticia reciente de cómo la tienda ha atraído nuevos suscriptores ya parece haber motivado a uno de nuestros lectores a preparar un viaje: “Es tiempo de desempolvar mi credencial de socio”, nos escribió en Twitter, y nos la presumió:A otros lectores también les ganó la nostalgia y algunos argumentaron que Netflix y las plataformas de hoy no son lo mismo. “Blockbuster es casi arqueológico: en el futuro cercano será una labor de investigación histórica el encontrar una película fuera del streaming”, comentó Jorge Paredes por Facebook. “Mi esperanza es que lo retro siempre vuelve”, nos escribió Janeth Alcalá. Es cierto: ya han renacido las industrias de tecnologías de antaño como los discos en vinilo, ¿sucederá lo mismo con los sitios físicos para rentar películas?Gracias por leernos. Mañana no te pierdas las mejores noticias científicas y una selección de artículos especiales del Times.También puedes compartir este boletín con tus amigos, familiares, seres queridos y no tan queridos. Se pueden registrar en este enlace.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.It went viral. Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, told Andrew on CNBC that he didn’t quite understand why unpaid workers, some of them now turning to Uber and Lyft for income after missing their second paycheck, were visiting food banks. They should just borrow some money, he said:There really is not a good excuse why there should be a liquidity crisis. Now, true, the people might have to pay a little bit of interest. But the idea that it’s paycheck or zero is not a really valid idea.The comments reflect a “ ‘let them eat cake’ kind of attitude,” said Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has emerged as a powerful opponent to President Trump.Federal workers, many of them wary of taking on more debt, might also struggle to access credit. The credit union affiliated with Mr. Ross’s department advertises a shutdown loan with a rate higher than some other commercially available loans.As the shutdown drags on, lawmakers are scrambling to find a compromise after two proposals to reopen the government fell flat in the Republican-controlled Senate. Mr. Trump’s plan, which included funding for a border wall, garnered less support than the Democrats’ recommendation, which omitted the wall.The strain intensifies: • Low- and middle-income home buyers in rural areas are left in the lurch without an affordable mortgage option offered by the Agriculture Department.• Tyson Foods donated 685,000 meals to federal workers.• The shutdown threatens to taint the appeal of public service, which “will make it harder to recruit and hold onto the experienced and talented,” Campbell Robertson writes.• Patent handling may have to cease in mid-February.• James Gorman, the chief executive of Morgan Stanley, said a prolonged shutdown would “have an extremely damaging effect.” Economists from J.P. Morgan said that, already, the stalemate had taken a toll on the U.S. economy.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in Davos, Switzerland; Stephen Grocer in New York; and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The mood at the World Economic Forum in the Swiss resort is “subdued, cautious and apprehensive,” a reflection of the broader outlook, Fareed Zakaria writes in the Washington Post:There is no great global political crisis, yet people speak in worried tones about the state of democracy, open societies and the international order.The reason: Mr. Zakaria points to a noticeable absence of leadership from defenders of democracy. President Trump scrapped plans to attend to focus on domestic problems, as did Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain and President Emmanuel Macron of France.The worry: The leaders of smaller countries described the world as lacking a collective purpose, he writes. Many yearn for a greater U.S. presence on the global stage, but with nobody shoring up the international system, will it weaken and eventually crumble?The warnings: Michael Sabia, who runs the $270 billion Canadian pension fund Caisse de Dépôt et Placement du Québec, complained that capitalists had forgotten their purpose as backers of corporate investment. “Too many equity investors are tourists; they’re not interested in building a business,” he said. And in a provocative speech, the billionaire philanthropist George Soros criticized President Xi Jinping, saying that China’s technological advancements made Mr. Xi a “dangerous opponent of open societies.”Complacency toward the trade tensions between the U.S. and China are misplaced, according to the Economist, because the rift is compounding a gradual shift in the world economy. Globalization, so the argument goes, has given way to a new era of sluggishness, or “slowbalization.”The back story: In the golden age of globalization, from about 1990 to 2010, commerce soared as the cost of transporting goods fell, tariffs were cut and the financial system became liberalized.The shift: Trade is suffering, and companies are changing their long-term investment plans. “Slowbalization” is expected to lead to stronger ties to regional blocs as supply chains seek sources closer to home.Why it matters: Emerging countries will struggle to trade their way to riches. Climate change, migration and tax-dodging will be even harder to solve without global cooperation.The effect is being felt around the world:• Germany’s industrial slump worsened at the start of 2019, casting a cloud over the eurozone economy.• Norway’s central bank said it was prepared to raise interest rates as soon as March, but warned of “considerable uncertainty” as it moves to wind down its stimulus plan.• Starbucks put its recent sales slump behind it, beating analyst estimates in crucial regions, but the company’s growth in China is at a crawl.The utility was cleared of responsibility in the 2017 blaze that chewed through a wide swath of Northern California, leading some to question whether the company should move ahead with its plans to file for bankruptcy by the end of the month.The California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection said that private electrical equipment in a home caused the Tubbs Fire in Sonoma County, which killed 22 people and destroyed more than 5,600 buildings. PG&E’s stock, which has plunged dramatically in recent months, surged 75 percent after the news on Thursday.But the company is still facing billions of dollars of potential liabilities. State officials blame PG&E equipment for at least 17 of 21 major wildfires in 2017.Bankruptcy, however, may not be the best course of action, according to many investors and analysts who say that PG&E has plenty of assets it could leverage against claims.From high above the Earth, a brigade of satellites can track the number of cars parked outside Sears stores, identify illegal logging operations, sense activity from cellular towers and snap infrared images of factories in Guangdong, China.Nowadays, it’s not only superpower governments that can gain access to the trove of information. Start-ups working with human rights groups and businesses looking for a competitive edge are moving rapidly into high-altitude surveillance, Cade Metz writes.Satellites have become cheaper to build, launch and operate, with 2,220 Earth observation units expected to head into orbit over the next decade, compared with about 730 satellites launched in the past decade.Though some say that spying from the sky is a “narrow niche,” Mark Johnson, the chief executive of the start-up Descartes Labs, said the development could have major ramifications.“Businesses will not be able to hide from competitors or regulators or watchdogs,” he said. “They need to realize that their traditional competitive advantage — information — will be available to everyone.”David Giordano will become BlackRock’s global head of renewable power, replacing Jim Barry, who will remain global head of real assets. (Bloomberg)Deals• The N.F.L. great Joe Montana, who founded a venture fund in 2015, participated in a $75 million fund-raising round for the marijuana brand Caliva. Carol Bartz, the former chief executive of Yahoo, also invested. (Bloomberg)Tech • Amazon is marketing facial recognition technology that a study reveals had difficulty identifying the gender of female faces and darker-skinned faces. (NYT)• Shares of Tencent jumped more than 3 percent after Chinese regulators approved two of the company’s mobile games. (Reuters)• A philanthropic investment group run by Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan does not funnel data back to Facebook, Ms. Chan said. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy • Roger Stone, a longtime adviser to President Trump, was indicted in the special counsel investigation into election interference and charged with seven counts, including obstruction and witness tampering. (NYT)• More than 90 percent of the Trump administration’s efforts to pare back federal regulations on business have been blocked in court or withdrawn after a lawsuit, according to a running tally. (CNBC)• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a tax that would require the top 75,000 households to pay an annual 2 percent tax on net worth above $50 million, rising to 3 percent on every dollar above $1 billion. (Bloomberg)• Two House committees sent an inquiry to Deutsche Bank about the lender’s ties to President Trump. A financial disclosure form showed at least $130 million in liabilities to a unit of the German bank for properties including the Trump International Hotel in Washington. (Reuters)• According to a new study, members of Generation Z are more open to social change than older generations. These findings could substantially reshape the political landscape in the U.S. (NYT)• The White House is considering several women as the next World Bank president, including the former PepsiCo chief executive Indra Nooyi and possibly Dina Powell, a Goldman Sachs executive who helped advise the Trump administration on national security matters. (WSJ)• After a Chinese academic study named 66 companies, including Amazon and Apple, as having “misidentified” Taiwan as not being part of China, Taiwan’s foreign minister asked for support from “like-minded democracies.” (FT)Best of the rest • Kenneth Griffin’s purchase of a $238 million penthouse in New York heightened the debate about income inequality. (NYT)• Thomas Enders, the chief executive at Airbus, called the lack of clarity for businesses in Brexit talks a “disgrace.” (WSJ)• Hoping to address mounting public concerns over plastic waste, Procter & Gamble, Nestlé, PepsiCo and other companies will try selling their products in reusable containers. (WSJ)• Last year, as new laws focused on fraud targeting older customers, banks reported more than 24,000 suspected cases, more than double the number five years earlier. (WSJ)• Munchery, a meal delivery company backed by venture capital, fired 250 people and shut down. (Bloomberg)• Want a vacation home in the Hamptons? There are 82 percent more homes for sale in the beachfront towns than a year ago. (Bloomberg)• Student demand for computer science courses is outstripping the supply of professors, creating an undergraduate divide of computing haves and have-nots. (NYT)• Hedge fund start-ups are having a harder time amid rising costs and shrinking returns. The average size for new funds has sunk 72 percent, to $28 million, since 2000. (Bloomberg)• Ford says it could face costs of up to $1 billion if Britain leaves the European Union without a deal. (Reuters)• The San Joaquin County pension fund has decided to pull its entire $81 million from Bridgewater’s Pure Alpha II fund because of disappointing returns and high fees. (Bloomberg)• Prices for Super Bowl commercials are flattening out after a decade of steady increases. Viewership peaked in 2015 and fell to its lowest level in nine years last year. (Bloomberg)• In a blow to Google’s effort to compete with Amazon in e-commerce, Walmart has left Google’s Shopping Actions service and its Google Express delivery service. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Nick Corasaniti and Shane GoldmacherNEWARK — Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, the former mayor of Newark who has projected an upbeat political presence at a deeply polarized time, entered the 2020 race for president on Friday, embarking on a campaign to become the nation’s second black president in a Democratic primary field that is the most diverse in American history.Mr. Booker announced his candidacy on the first day of Black History Month to the sound of snare drums and with a clarion call for unity. In an email to supporters, he drew on the spirit of the civil rights movement as he laid out his vision for a country that will “channel our common pain back into our common purpose.”“The history of our nation is defined by collective action; by interwoven destinies of slaves and abolitionists; of those born here and those who chose America as home; of those who took up arms to defend our country, and those who linked arms to challenge and change it,” Mr. Booker said in an accompanying video.The Democratic field now features two black contenders — Mr. Booker and Senator Kamala Harris of California — and four women: Ms. Harris, Senators Elizabeth Warren and Kirsten Gillibrand, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard. There is also a Hispanic candidate, Julián Castro, the former Housing and Urban Development secretary under President Barack Obama, and a gay candidate, Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind.The field reflects a party in which women and candidates of color have injected a surge of new energy, and given urgency to the Democrats’ imperative of ousting President Trump. And it follows midterm elections in which women and minority candidates for Congress won in record numbers and have assumed some key positions in party ranks.“It shows the growth of the country and that many of us who have struggled for civil and human rights feel that we are in a new moment that we wanted,’’ the Rev. Al Sharpton said in an interview. He added: “It’s like the new America against the old America and a lot of Americans who are older and younger want to make sure they participate in the new America.”With Ms. Harris announcing her candidacy last month, Mr. Booker’s entry amounts to a presidential first: offering black voters, who have been crucial in determining the last two Democratic nominees, a choice between two black candidates as well as other contenders.In an interview on SiriusXM’s Joe Madison show, Mr. Booker touted “the coalitions that we need to build in this country,’’ adding “we’ve got to begin to see each other with a far more courageous empathy to understand that we have one destiny in America.”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]Mr. Booker’s announcement had long been anticipated. He was among the most conspicuous campaigners for other Democrats during the 2018 midterm election, making 39 trips to 24 states as he honed a central message — that this was a “moral moment in America” — that is likely to frame his future critiques of the Trump administration.Through his soaring oratory, laced with inspirational quotes, Mr. Booker has projected a relentless optimism that provides perhaps the starkest contrast to the divisive politics ushered in by Mr. Trump. His message of unity also comes amid a fractured Democratic coalition, where far-left progressives like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez view traditional Democrats with caution.It remains to be seen whether Mr. Booker’s aspirational tones will fall flat with a Democratic electorate energized by seething anger toward Mr. Trump. Mr. Booker has at times been a harsh critic of the president, denouncing Mr. Trump’s degradation of African and Haitian countries as “the most vile and vulgar language.” He may face pressure to adopt a harsher, more confrontational message in his campaign.Mr. Trump, in an interview with CBS’s “Face the Nation” that will air this weekend, cast doubt on Mr. Booker’s candidacy.“He’s got no chance,” the president said. When asked why, Mr. Trump replied: “Because I know him. I don’t think he has a chance.”Mr. Booker also has a lengthy record of moderate, pro-business stances that could be problematic for the party’s ascendant progressive wing.For example, he defended the investment firm Bain Capital against attacks from the Obama campaign during the 2012 presidential election, and he had a chummy relationship with Chris Christie, the Republican former governor of New Jersey, for most of his tenure.His continued embrace of charter schools, long a favorite of wealthy donors but currently out of favor among the Democratic grass roots, could create still more problems.In a press event Friday outside his home on a crowded street in Newark, Mr. Booker pushed back on criticism that he favored special interests.Who’s in, who’s out and who’s still thinking.“My record as a mayor, my record as a senator is fighting those interests that are trying to screw people,” Mr. Booker said. “And when it comes to defending folk, I will be ferocious.”In announcing his bid for president, Mr. Booker is seeking to fulfill the promise that many have seen in his future for two decades, ever since he moved from Yale Law School to the blighted Brick Towers of Newark, the symbolic launching pad for his career as an inner-city politician.His first electoral victory was for the City Council in Newark, ousting an incumbent Democrat. He failed in his first bid for mayor, in 2002, against another entrenched Democrat, Sharpe James. But the loss made Mr. Booker famous as he raised millions of dollars in a race that drew national attention.A documentary about his failed run, “Street Fight,” was nominated for an Oscar. Mr. Booker won the mayoralty four years later when Mr. James, who would eventually land in federal prison on charges of fraud, opted against a rematch.As mayor, Mr. Booker crafted celebrity status through his early adoption of Twitter. He drew attention and money to the struggling city, including a $100 million check from Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, to be injected into Newark’s schools. The gift was announced with much fanfare on “The Oprah Winfrey Show,” but brought mixed results to the troubled school system.After running on a platform of making Newark a safer place to live, crime fell early in his tenure, but began to rise after budget cuts led Mr. Booker to lay off about 10 percent of the police force. At the same time, Mr. Booker’s police director embraced the controversial “stop-and-frisk” policy, and the American Civil Liberties Union accused the department of brutality, baseless searches, intimidation and false arrests. The Department of Justice launched an investigation into the department, though it was billed as “cooperative” and Mr. Booker said he “welcomed” the inquiry.Mr. Booker’s connections to financial titans, on Wall Street and in Silicon Valley, have also lifted him throughout his career, generating money for campaigns and for the city he ran. Those connections could power a presidential bid: One California donor, Steve Phillips, created a super PAC with a goal to raise $10 million in the coming months to support Mr. Booker’s bid — even before he announced his candidacy.But in a Democratic Party where a backlash to the sway of billionaires and financiers is strong, Mr. Booker’s ties to both Wall Street and Silicon Valley risk harming his campaign as much as helping it.His campaign, which will be called “Cory 2020,” said it would not accept contributions from corporate PACs and federal lobbyists, and also said it would oppose any supportive super PAC, even though Mr. Phillips’s already exists.For all the attention drawn to Newark by Mr. Booker’s national celebrity, recovery in the city has been mixed. Though crime is currently on a downward trend under Mayor Ras Baraka and development is booming, murders and robberies were on the rise when Mr. Booker left office in 2013.In the Senate, Mr. Booker has been one of the most aggressive critics of the Trump administration, breaking with Senate precedent and testifying against the nomination of a fellow senator, Jeff Sessions, for attorney general. He also vigorously criticized a top Trump official, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, for concealing a racist comment made by Mr. Trump.Using his perch on the Judiciary Committee, he has been a forceful opposing voice to many of Mr. Trump’s key nominations, releasing confidential emails during the confirmation hearing of Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh and, more recently, questioning the attorney general nominee William P. Barr’s record and past statements on race and criminal justice.Mr. Booker has a relatively thin record of signature legislative accomplishments in the Senate. He did notch a major victory in co-sponsoring and pushing for a bipartisan criminal justice bill signed by Mr. Trump at the end of 2018, capping a long effort of advocating criminal justice reform in the Senate.Mr. Booker was one of the first politicians to fully embrace the direct reach of social media, tweeting out direct responses to Newark residents complaining of potholes and broken heaters. Stories of him shoveling out residents of Newark in snowstorms, rescuing a shivering dog or darting into a burning building to save his neighbor went viral. He was invited to the annual South by Southwest festival in Austin in 2012 to pontificate about Twitter, and said he joined the social media network thanks to a tip from the actor Ashton Kutcher.Though he has been courting political operatives in Iowa and New Hampshire for months, Mr. Booker will likely focus heavily on South Carolina and other southeastern states with large black voting populations.His first campaign events as a candidate will be a two-day swing through Iowa on Feb. 8, followed by two days in South Carolina. He plans to visit New Hampshire over Presidents’ Day weekend.Mr. Booker, who visited a church in Newark on Thursday night to pray before his announcement, said that he hadn’t quite settled on a campaign theme song, though Kirk Franklin’s “Stand” had been in heavy rotation.“This last week, leading up to this day,” Mr. Booker said on the “Tom Joyner Morning Show,” “all I’ve been listening to is gospel.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Here’s what to watch for. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)President Trump is optimistic about striking a trade deal with China — but Chinese officials are hesitant, according to Keith Bradsher and Ana Swanson of the NYT:“Beijing officials are wary” that what currently looks like a positive trade deal for them, which doesn’t require big changes to the economy, could turn bad, Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson explain. They worry about “Mr. Trump’s propensity for last-minute changes,” according to unidentified sources.Those fears could derail a planned summit meeting between President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China, where Mr. Trump hopes to sign a deal. “Persuading Mr. Xi to attend such a summit meeting is no easy task, given his imperative of appearing strong before a domestic audience,” Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson note.“The biggest barrier to a deal continues to be the enforcement of terms,” Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson add. “The United States has insisted that it retain the right to raise tariffs if China violates the agreement, without retaliation by Beijing. But some Chinese officials have criticized the arrangement as a potential infringement of China’s sovereign rights.”More: China exports and imports both fell in February, as an economic slowdown and trade fights weighed on the nation.The dust has settled on Mark Zuckerberg’s surprise announcement that the social network would refocus its business on privacy. Now, people are starting to dissect what, exactly, the news means for its business model.“Facebook is entering a transition phase where it will continue to sell targeted ads on its public social networks, while inventing a new business model,” Thomas Husson, a senior analyst at the research company Forrester, told the FT. In other words, think of it as less of a pivot and as more of a diversification.So it will “still gather data from its existing sources,” Christopher Mims of the WSJ writes, “but also increasingly from messaging apps. These would double as interfaces with businesses and, eventually, usurp the functions of our credit cards and digital wallets.” Expect to see Facebook make announcements about payments, commerce and its own crypto token in the not-too-distant future.Diversification is a play for long-term survival, especially if regulators clamp down on the mass collection of data and targeted ads that have been the company’s bread and butter. The faster Facebook can spin up alternative revenue streams — and acting as a global payments network could be a lucrative one — the better its chances of continuing to grow.Bank of America released a report yesterday, on the eve of International Women’s Day, that shows the state of the global disparity in wealth between men and women. There’s reason for both hope and dismay, according to Ortenca Aliaj of the FT.The good:• The report says that improving women’s equality could raise global growth over the next six years by $28 trillion — or, as Ms. Aliaj writes, “roughly the same as the U.S. and China’s combined annual economic output.”• Women are expected to control $72 trillion of global financial assets by 2020, double what they held in 2010.The bad:• “The economic gender gap is closing at a ‘snail’s pace’ and it could take another 202 years to reach equality at the current rate.”• “Women in western Europe might start earning the same as men for the same roles in 60 years, while women in North America might have to wait another 165 years, the report calculated.”• “Data compiled from more than 10,000 respondents showed that men were more optimistic about higher pay rises over the next year while women expected to perform at least two and a half times more unpaid work than men.”More: The private equity and venture capital industries have $3 trillion in assets under management — but female entrepreneurs receive just a fraction of it, according to a new report.As Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant, takes the U.S. government to court over a ban limiting the use of its products in federal agencies, the company has won the support of its government.• “We support relevant companies and individuals to take up legal weapons to safeguard their rights and interests, and not be silent lambs,” Wang Yi, Beijing’s top diplomat, said at a news conference yesterday.• “What we’re standing up for is not just the interests of a company, but also a country or nation’s legitimate right to innovate and by extension the basic right of all countries who wish to climb up the technology ladder,” he added.But Mr. Wang’s comments don’t address U.S. claims that Huawei equipment could be used by China to spy on American communications. As CNBC notes, Chinese law suggests that domestic companies are legally obligated to help the government with intelligence work — and may be forbidden from talking about it.With less than a week to go before Parliament makes a final vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal, she is expected to try to shift the focus from Britain to the E.U.“Just as MPs will face a big choice next week, the E.U. has to make a choice too,” Mrs. May is expected to say in a speech today, according to the BBC. “It is in the European interest for the U.K. to leave with a deal.”“The decisions that the European Union makes over the next few days will have a big impact on the outcome of the vote,” she will add, referring to her hope that European officials will make binding legal changes to the Irish border details of her deal. Those look necessary if Mrs. May is to win over lawmakers.Such a public plea for compromise shows how tough the negotiations have been. “Talks are expected to continue into the weekend,” Bloomberg notes. “If they fail, Parliament will likely vote against May’s deal for the second time, plunging the country into political chaos.”Just a few months ago, the European Central Bank put the brakes on a vast economic stimulus program. Yesterday, it unexpectedly reversed course, Jack Ewing of the NYT writes:• The E.C.B. voted unanimously “to bring back a stimulus measure intended to encourage lending. The move will help banks in countries with weaker economies like Italy that may have trouble raising money on capital markets at reasonable rates.”• “The bank also pushed back the date of its earliest possible increase in benchmark interest rates by at least four months.”• “The quick turnabout, from confidence to concern, reflects the broader weakness in the global economy. A slowdown in China, exacerbated by rising trade tensions with the United States, has reverberated around the world, dragging down growth in Europe and elsewhere.”• “Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, implicitly blamed White House policies for the economic damage behind the decision. ‘Lower confidence produced by the trade discussions’ was a key cause of economic slowdowns in Europe, China and emerging markets, Mr. Draghi said.”• “He added, though, that he did not expect a recession.”You might think that Martin Shkreli, the “pharma bro” imprisoned for fraud, would have curtailed his business efforts. You’d be wrong, as Rob Copeland and Bradley Hope of the WSJ point out.• “Wielding little more than a contraband smartphone, the disgraced pharmaceutical executive remains the shadow power at Phoenixus AG,” the company that, under a different name, drew outrage for jacking up the prices of rare drugs.• He conducts drug research from the prison’s computer lab and, until recently, tweeted insults at the likes of Jack Dorsey of Twitter.• His friends at a prison in Fort Dix, N.J., include inmates like “Krispy” and “D-Block.” (Their reported nickname for Mr. Shkreli is unprintable here.)• “A few weeks ago he rang up his handpicked chief executive during a safari vacation — to fire him, according to a person familiar with the exchange.” That was later changed to a suspension.• “His back-of-the-commissary-envelope calculation indicates that Phoenixus could be worth $3.7 billion by the time he is due to be freed in 2023, according to a person familiar with his thinking.” His business plan involves buying rare drugs and spending on research and development.• But minority shareholders in the company are tired of Mr. Shkreli’s behavior. “This investment is an absolute disaster,” Sabine Gritti, one of those investors, told the WSJ.Uber, Lyft, Airbnb, Slack and a host of other Silicon Valley companies are poised to go public this year, making employees and investors who own shares very rich. Nellie Bowles of the NYT explores how they plan to spend their wealth:They will push up real estate prices. The Bay Area, known for its unaffordable housing, may get even pricier. “People are like, ‘I’m not going to sell till next year, because there are going to be bajillionaries everywhere,’” Herman Chan, a real estate agent with Sotheby’s, told Ms. Bowles.There will be parties. Companies that go public want to celebrate, and hospitality companies are happy to oblige. One planner told Ms. Bowles that start-up I.P.O. party budgets can exceed $10 million, adding, “They’re wanting to bring in A-list celebrities to perform at the dinner tables for the executives.”Trophy purchases will be made. But wealth advisers are trying to persuade new clients to show a little restraint. “I don’t think a lot of them think there ever could be a downturn,” Ryan S. Cole of Citrine Capital told the NYT, adding, “They shouldn’t be buying boats.”Jan Stahlberg, a co-founder of the Swedish private equity firm EQT, is leaving to start an impact-investing fund.Deals• Norway gave its sovereign wealth fund permission to sell off its holdings in pure-play oil companies. (Bloomberg)• Airbnb agreed to buy HotelTonight, a site for last-minute hotel bookings. (NYT)• A group led by Amazon and the New York Yankees is reportedly close to buying the YES Network, the Yankee’s regional sports channel, from 21st Century Fox for about $3.5 billion. (NY Post)• SoftBank announced a new $5 billion fund to invest in Latin American start-ups. (WSJ)• The billionaire family that controls the maker of OxyContin has been dropped by Hildene Capital Management, a hedge fund that had managed some of their money. (WSJ)Politics and policy• House Democrats are looking into claims that President Trump wanted the White House to block AT&T’s bid for Time Warner. (CNBC)• The Labor Department proposed expanding overtime eligibility to cover most salaried workers earning less than $35,000 a year. (NYT)• Michael Cohen sued the Trump Organization over what he says are $1.9 million in unpaid legal fees. (NYT)• Paul Manafort was sentenced to 47 months in prison in one of two cases against him, well below federal guidelines. (NYT)Tech• Wall Street is betting on business software because of the sector’s fast growth. (FT)• Elon Musk’s federal security clearance is at risk over his pot use. (Bloomberg)• Facebook announced a plan to curb vaccine misinformation. (NYT)• Tim Cook changed his Twitter handle to “Tim Apple”— after President Trump misidentified him during a meeting this week. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Carlos Ghosn’s lawyer explained why his client left jail in disguise — and admitted that it didn’t work very well. (WSJ)• Governments and investors are taking a new interest in Africa. Will it play out better for Africans this time? (Economist)• Modern Monetary Theory is gaining favor among American politicians. But should we try it out in a smaller country first? (Upshot)• Philadelphia has become the first U.S. city to ban cashless stores. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Guns Down America, a gun-control advocacy group, has graded 15 banks based on their support for the gun industry, Tiffany Hsu of the NYT reports. Most received dismal appraisals.• “Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.”• The group used a 100-point scale that weighed factors like “a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers” and “discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.”• Citi got an 84. JPMorgan got a 48. BB&T, the lowest-ranking bank on the list, got a 20, in part for loans and financing that it arranged for gun makers like Smith & Wesson.• “We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Igor Volsky, the group’s executive director, told Ms. Hsu. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”• Ms. Hsu writes that “several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.”Carlos Ghosn was arrested for a fourth time today, as prosecutors hit him with new charges of using company funds for personal ends. The former Nissan chairman claims that it’s part of an effort to silence him.This time, he was accused of using a Nissan subsidiary in Oman to send millions of dollars of payments to one of the carmaker’s foreign business partners, which then passed it on to a company Mr. Ghosn controlled.Mr. Ghosn did this three times between 2015 and 2018, resulting in $5 million in losses to Nissan, according to prosecutors.He may be held in solitary confinement for at least 20 days, the FT reports, citing unnamed people close to his family. It adds that it is highly unusual in the Japanese legal system for someone released on bail to be rearrested.Mr. Ghosn blamed “some individuals at Nissan” for his “outrageous and arbitrary arrest,” saying they were attempting “to silence me by misleading the prosecutors.” He had tweeted yesterday that he planned to hold a news conference next Thursday to tell “the truth about what’s going on.”That tweet and arrest raise an interesting question: Did he violate the terms of his bail, which restrict his internet access?Cybersecurity researchers have found data about hundreds of millions of Facebook users stored publicly by a third party on Amazon’s cloud servers, according to Bloomberg.• “In one instance, Mexico City-based digital platform Cultura Colectiva openly stored 540 million records on Facebook users, including identification numbers, comments, reactions and account names. The records were accessible and downloadable for anyone who could find them online.”• “In the Cultura Colectiva dataset, which totaled 146 gigabytes, it was difficult for researchers to know how many unique Facebook users were affected.”• The researchers also “ had trouble working to get the database closed.”• “A Facebook spokesperson said that the company’s policies prohibit storing Facebook information in a public database. Once it was alerted to the issue, Facebook worked with Amazon to take down the databases.”It has been over a year since the Cambridge Analytica scandal showed how widely Facebook had shared user data with third-party app developers. The social network began to audit that data-sharing last year, but the research report shows the struggle the company still faces.More: Facebook is paying the British newspaper The Telegraph to publish sponsored articles that play down concerns about its practices. New research suggests that its algorithms target ads by race and gender even when advertisers request a broad audience. And have Mark Zuckerberg’s tech regulation proposals been treated unfairly?President Trump is expected to meet China’s trade envoy, Liu He, in Washington later today. That could be a sign of progress on some of the sticking points surrounding a potential deal, according to Bob Davis of the WSJ.The U.S. and China have been at odds over tariffs imposed on $250 billion of Chinese goods. Washington sees them as a way to ensure that China sticks to the deal; Beijing wants them removed as soon as it’s signed. China has few other hard demands, and U.S. businesses have urged the Trump administration to remove the tariffs.There could be workarounds. The U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, has “been using the tariff issue to push for another U.S. priority — that China agree to a no-retaliation clause in a trade deal,” Mr. Davis reports. The plan, which could let the U.S. unilaterally impose levies on Chinese goods if China does not comply, could “help him persuade Mr. Trump to approve the agreement and lift a substantial amount of tariffs.”“Mr. Trump is looking to announce on Thursday the date of a summit with Mr. Xi,” an unnamed Trump administration official told Mr. Davis. “That’s a big signal the two sides are on the cusp of a deal, trade experts say, and a resolution of the tariff issue.”But “the situation is fluid, and plans could change,” the official added.Senator Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate’s tax-writing committee, has an idea that could radically change how America taxes the 1 percent, according to the WSJ.Mr. Wyden proposed taxing gains in asset values annually, at the same rate as other income. Gains are currently taxed only when investors sell an asset, and at a top rate of 23.8 percent, rather than the 37 percent for ordinary income.The senator said his plan would “eliminate serious loopholes that allow some to pay a lower rate than wage earners, to delay their taxes indefinitely, and in some cases, to avoid paying tax at all.”Challenges to the plan include how to value gains in complex assets, how to handle declines in value, and how to apply it to illiquid holdings like real estate.The proposal “is a breathtakingly terrible idea,” Sen. Pat Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, told the WSJ.President Trump’s aversion to regulation and his go-it-alone nationalism are wavering in the face of technology questions, Steve Lohr of the NYT reports.• “In September, the Trump administration abandoned its hands-off approach and began working closely with the 36-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to create international guidelines for the design and use of artificial intelligence.”• “The administration has also started to discuss a new law to protect privacy in the digital age, seeking consensus domestically and common ground internationally. It has fielded more than 200 public-comment filings from advocacy groups, corporations and individuals.”The administration has “moved from indifference to engagement,” Julie Brill, a former commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission who now helps oversee regulatory affairs for Microsoft, told Mr. Lohr.“The shift is a pragmatic recognition that regulations that will affect the nation’s tech industry and its citizens are coming, and that if federal officials want a say in them, they must participate,” Mr. Lohr writes.The race to give citizens superfast wireless data networks reached a conclusion yesterday. But there’s no clear consensus on which city is the world’s first to enjoy 5G, the WSJ reports.• “Verizon launched 5G wireless service in parts of Chicago and Minneapolis on Wednesday, a week ahead of its planned start date, while carriers in South Korea deployed their service in the Seoul metropolitan area the same day.”• “It is unclear which country struck first. South Korea’s large carriers, which had eyed a Friday start, hustled to switch on 5G services at 11 p.m. local time. Both SK Telecom Co. and KT Corp., the two largest operators, claimed to have the world’s first 5G smartphone subscribers. Verizon said its customers in those two cities were the first.”The development of 5G has become politically charged. America and China, in particular, see it as a means of asserting technological prowess. And the battle has entangled the Chinese telecom company Huawei, with America and others declaring its 5G hardware a risk to national security.Expect to hear more about the race.Condé Nast has hired Roger Lynch, the former chief executive of Pandora, as its new C.E.O.PG&E confirmed that it has appointed 10 new directors, including Nora Mead Brownell, a former commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulation Commission, and Jeffrey Bleich, a partner at the law firm Dentons.Zeina Bain, one of the Carlyle Group’s most senior female deal makers, has left for a competitor, ICG.Apple promoted its M.&A. chief, Adrian Perica, by having him report directly to Tim Cook instead of the company’s C.F.O.Deals• The radio giant iHeartMedia filed to go public yesterday, though it hasn’t decided between an I.P.O. and a Spotify-like direct share listing. (NYT)• Nearly 20 percent of Lyft’s shares have been lent to short-sellers as part of bets they’ll fall in price. It’s now the most expensive American stock to short. (DealBook, Business Insider)• SoftBank is reportedly in talks to raise $15 billion more for its Vision Fund. (Bloomberg)• The consulting firm Accenture agreed to buy Droga5, one of the big independent advertising agencies. (NYT)Politics and policy• The arrest of a Chinese national carrying malware at Mar-a-Lago shows how hard it is for a presidential home to double as a moneymaking business. (WaPo)• The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee formally requested six years of President Trump’s tax returns, while the House Intelligence Committee has asked for documents related to his inauguration. (NYT)• Senate Republicans resorted to the “nuclear option” of limiting debate on presidential nominations for federal courts and administrative posts to speed up confirmation of Mr. Trump’s picks. (NYT)• Some of Robert Mueller’s investigators have told associates that Attorney General William Barr’s summary of their findings underplayed troubling conclusions about President Trump. (NYT)Boeing• Ethiopian investigators said that the pilots of the Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed followed proper guidance. (NYT)• Some pilots said that Boeing should have provided more instructions for disabling the anti-stall software suspected in the two crashes. (WSJ)• The family of Ralph Nader’s niece, who was killed in the Ethiopian Airlines crash, plans to sue Boeing. (NYT)• Boeing hasn’t halted 737 Max production despite the global grounding of the Max 8 model. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May and the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, have begun talks to devise a Brexit deal that could garner cross-party support. (NYT)• Parliament passed a bill to force Mrs. May to seek a further delay to the process and avoid a no-deal Brexit. (FT)Tech• Tesla delivered 63,000 vehicles in the first quarter — fewer than expected and down 31 percent from the fourth quarter of 2018. (NYT)• A.I. experts have called on Amazon to stop selling its facial-recognition technology to law enforcement because it’s biased against women and people of color. (NYT)• Australia passed a law threatening huge fines for social media companies that fail to take down “abhorrent violent material” rapidly. (NYT)• MIT is cutting ties with the Chinese tech giants Huawei and ZTE over security risks. (FT)• Google will now require suppliers to provide their workers with benefits, including parental leave and minimum wages. (Wired)Best of the rest• Has the yield curve predicted the next recession — or are its warnings being overplayed? (FT)• Six women have sued Jones Day, one of the world’s largest law firms, for pregnancy and gender discrimination. (NYT)• A report by BlackRock says that investors underestimate extreme weather risks. (FT)• China’s stimulus plan might be working. (FT)• Much of the U.S. is experiencing a Japan-style decline in working-age residents. (Upshot)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a new indictment in Robert Mueller’s investigation, the increasingly urgent talks as the government shutdown continues and the leadership crisis in Venezuela. And it’s Friday, so there’s a new news quiz.Mr. Stone, a longtime informal adviser to President Trump, was arrested today and charged by Robert Mueller’s office with seven counts, including obstruction of an official proceeding, making false statements and witness tampering.The indictment is the first public move in months by Mr. Mueller, who is investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and possible coordination with Trump associates.A self-described dirty trickster who began his career as a campaign aide for Richard Nixon, Mr. Stone has long maintained his innocence.Catch up: Here’s a look at everyone who has been charged in investigations related to the 2016 election.Background: During the 2016 presidential race, Mr. Stone presented himself to Trump campaign officials as a conduit of information from WikiLeaks, which was releasing damaging Democratic emails. Read our report from November.About 800,000 federal workers will miss a second consecutive paycheck today, after two measures aimed at ending the partial government shutdown failed as expected in the Senate.In back-to-back votes, lawmakers first blocked President Trump’s proposal to add $5.7 billion for his border wall to legislation to resume government funding, then defeated a Democratic measure that omitted the barrier. Here’s how every senator voted.What’s next: House Democrats are preparing to outline more than $5 billion in border security measures, a far larger sum than they initially supported. Mr. Trump mentioned “other alternatives” to break the impasse, presumably an emergency declaration that could allow him to shift funds from the military or the Army Corps of Engineers.News analysis: The president prides himself on being a master negotiator, but Speaker Nancy Pelosi “is a different kind of opponent, and one who so far has flummoxed him,” one of our congressional correspondents writes.As the shutdown continues, scientists, engineers and other highly skilled employees are starting to question the appeal of government work.“We didn’t get Ph.D.s just to sit around,” said a chemist at NASA, which has rarely struggled to attract top talent. Most of the space agency’s employees have been furloughed during the nearly six-week shutdown.Yesterday: Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, expressed confusion about why furloughed workers were visiting food banks and said they should take out loans. He’s one of several administration officials who have been criticized as sounding out-of-touch about the shutdown’s toll. For you: Aviation unions have raised concerns about the shutdown’s effect on air safety, but the president of the air traffic controllers’ union said, “The flying public is safe.” Here’s what else to know about air travel.President Trump has been determined not to disappoint supporters by giving ground on his campaign promise of a border wall.But the Southwest’s growing diversity and the president’s demeaning rhetoric about migrants are pulling parts of the region from the once-firm grip of Republicans. From California to Texas, all nine House members whose districts touch the border say a wall is the wrong solution for border security.Closer look: Two Times journalists are traveling the length of the 2,000-mile border between the U.S. and Mexico. Read their latest dispatch.Yesterday: The Trump administration said it would start preventing some asylum seekers from entering the U.S. from Mexico. The policy was first announced last month.The government of President Nicolás Maduro struck back on Thursday, winning the support of the country’s military as well as that of Russia, which warned the U.S. not to intervene. The opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, had declared himself the country’s legitimate president a day earlier.Forces loyal to Mr. Maduro killed at least 20 people and wounded many more during this week’s protests, the United Nations human rights office said today, citing sources in the country.News analysis: President Trump, who has aligned himself with autocratic leaders around the world, has drawn a red line with Mr. Maduro. Mr. Trump’s stance represents a departure from his “America First” policy of staying out of other nations’ internal affairs, our correspondents write.Explainer: We answered some common questions about the crisis, including the roles played by socialism, Western imperialism, or both.The Daily: Today’s episode discusses the power struggle in Venezuela.The sale of an under-construction apartment overlooking Central Park has drawn attention even in Manhattan, which is no stranger to multimillion-dollar real estate deals. This is the story of the most expensive residential sale in U.S. history and the hedge fund tycoon behind it.Taliban talks: Negotiators are working on a deal in which the U.S. would leave Afghanistan and the Taliban would pledge not to harbor terrorists.Jamal Khashoggi killing: An expert from the United Nations human rights office will investigate the death of the Saudi dissident in October, the agency said today.Florida bank shooting: Three of the five victims — all women — who were killed in the city of Sebring were identified on Thursday. “We believe it was a random act,” a police official said.Facebook integration: Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, plans to unify the underlying infrastructure of its various messaging services: WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger.California utility is cleared: Pacific Gas and Electric Company, with billions of dollars of potential wildfire liabilities pushing it toward bankruptcy, has been cleared of responsibility for a giant fire in 2017. Its stock closed up 75 percent.Deal to rename Macedonia: Greek lawmakers voted today to recognize the newly renamed nation of North Macedonia, clearing the path for it to join NATO and potentially the European Union.Wisconsin kidnapping: Jayme Closs, the 13-year-old girl who escaped this month after being held captive for 88 days, will receive at least $25,000 of the reward money that had been offered for her return.Snapshot: Above, Marzieh Hashemi, an American journalist for Iran’s Press TV, was interviewed on Thursday after a 10-day detention by U.S. law enforcement officials. She had been ordered to appear before a grand jury in Washington as a material witness but was not charged with a crime.Australian Open: Novak Djokovic beat Lucas Pouille in straight sets to advance to Sunday’s final against Rafael Nadal.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Late-night comedy: Jimmy Fallon learned that a legal marijuana vendor was offering free medical cannabis to government workers during the shutdown: “Guess what travelers: That T.S.A. line can get slower.” What we’re reading: This National Geographic interview. “How long ago did Native Americans arrive here? (Longer ago than we thought.) How did they get here? (Complicated.) What was the nature of the fantastical world they found? Craig Childs, a writer, adventurer and author of ‘Atlas of a Lost World’ has a lot of answers,” writes Michael Powell, a sports columnist.Cook: Molasses gives ginger cookies a decidedly adult, almost caramel flavor.Read: These nine new books are recommended by our editors, including an account of a tribe of hunter-gatherers living on a remote Indonesian island.Watch: M. Night Shyamalan’s box office hit “Glass,” and then join our discussion about everything in the film that didn’t make sense.Go: The Metropolitan Opera’s revival of “Pelléas” shows its new music director, Yannick Nézet-Séguin, is fully in charge. It’s a Critic’s Pick.Smarter Living: Reduce your energy use by making sure your home is properly insulated. Experts recommend hiring an energy auditor, who can tell you whether your walls need blown-in insulation, which can save money in the long term. Check with your utility company: Some will send energy auditors for free or offer rebates.We’ve also got a guide to tidying up your tech and digital worlds, Marie Kondo-style.Robert Burns, the Scottish poet, was born on this day in 1759. He wrote hundreds of poems and songs, including the New Year’s Eve favorite “Auld Lang Syne,” before his life was cut short by illness.His use of vernacular is a barrier for many English speakers, but it is difficult to overstate the esteem he commands in Scotland and in the hearts of expatriates like this writer, who grew up in Burns’s home of Ayrshire.His verses gave dignity and voice to the disenfranchised, and he is beloved for his romanticism and sense of humor. Scots around the world celebrate his birth with “Burns suppers.”The most elaborate celebrations feature pipers marching in with a haggis (a traditional concoction of minced offal, oatmeal and spices) to a standing ovation, and a recitation by the host of Burns’s praise-filled “Address to a Haggis.”So tonight, whatever is on your plate, join me in a toast to one of Scotland’s best-loved sons.That’s it for this briefing. Have a good weekend.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for their cultural and Smarter Living tips. Jeanie Kay, a designer on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the crisis in Venezuela.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Novelist Austen (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Last year, The Times published articles in 10 languages in addition to English: Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Spanish and Russian.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Pam BelluckPALO ALTO, Calif. — “Success!” read the subject line of the email. The text, in imperfect English, began: “Good News! The women is pregnant, the genome editing success!”The sender was He Jiankui, an ambitious, young Chinese scientist. The recipient was his former academic adviser, Stephen Quake, a star Stanford bioengineer and inventor.“Wow, that’s quite an achievement!” Dr. Quake wrote back. “Hopefully she will carry to term...”Months later, the world learned the outcome of that pregnancy: twins born from genetically engineered embryos, the first gene-altered babies. Reaction was fierce. Many scientists and ethicists condemned the experiment as unethical and unsafe, fearing that it could inspire rogue or frivolous attempts to create permanent genetic changes using unproven and unregulated methods.A Chinese government investigation concluded in January that Dr. He had “seriously violated ethics, scientific research integrity and relevant state regulations.”Questions about other American scientists’ knowledge of Dr. He’s plans and their failure to sound a loud alarm have been an issue since Dr. He revealed his work in November.But now, Dr. Quake is facing a Stanford investigation into his interaction with Dr. He. That inquiry began after the president of Dr. He’s Chinese university wrote to Stanford’s president alleging that Dr. Quake had helped Dr. He.“Prof. Stephen Quake provided instructions to the preparation and implementation of the experiment, the publication of papers, the promotion and news release, and the strategies to react after the news release,” he alleged in letters obtained by The New York Times. Dr. Quake’s actions, he asserted, “violated the internationally recognized academic ethics and codes of conduct, and must be condemned.”Dr. Quake denied the allegations in a lengthy interview, saying his interaction with Dr. He, who was a postdoctoral student in his lab eight years ago, had been misinterpreted.“I had nothing to do with this and I wasn’t involved,” Dr. Quake said. “I hold myself to high ethical standards.”Dr. Quake showed The Times what he said were the last few years of his email communication with Dr. He. The correspondence provides a revealing window into the informal way researchers navigate a fast-moving, ethically controversial field.The emails show that Dr. He, 35, informed Dr. Quake, 49, of milestones, including that the woman became pregnant and gave birth. They show that Dr. Quake advised Dr. He to obtain ethical approval from Chinese institutions and submit the results for vetting by peer-reviewed journals, and that he agreed to Dr. He’s requests to discuss issues like when to present his research publicly.None of the notes suggest Dr. Quake was involved in the work himself. They do contain expressions of polite encouragement like “good luck!” Though Dr. Quake said he urged Dr. He not to pursue the project during an August 2016 meeting, the emails, mostly sent in 2017 and 2018, don’t tell him to stop.As global institutions like the World Health Organization work to create a system to keep cowboy scientists from charging into the Wild West of embryo editing, Dr. Quake’s interactions with Dr. He reflect issues that leading scientific institutions are now grappling with.When and where should scientists report controversial research ideas that colleagues share with them in confidence? Have scientists acted inappropriately if they provide conventional research advice to someone conducting an unorthodox experiment?“A lot of people wish that those who knew or suspected would have made more noise,” said R. Alta Charo, a bioethicist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison who co-led a 2017 national committee on human embryo editing.But she said scientists were not necessarily complicit if instead of trying to stop rogue experimenters, they advised them to follow ethical and research standards in hopes that institutions would intervene.Rice University has been investigating Michael Deem, Dr. He’s Ph.D. adviser, because of allegations that he was actively involved in the project; he had said publicly that he had been present during parts of it. Dr. Deem’s lawyers issued a statement strongly denying the allegations.The correspondence Dr. Quake shared provides new details about Dr. He’s project, also called germline editing, including indications that the twin girls were quite premature and remained hospitalized for several weeks. They were born in October, contrary to previous reports.Dr. Quake is an entrepreneur whose inventions include blood tests to detect Down syndrome in pregnancy and to avoid organ transplant rejection. He is co-president of an institute funded by the Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan. He does not do gene editing and said he was surprised when Dr. He told him during a 2016 visit to Stanford that he wanted to be the first to create gene-edited babies.“I said, ‘That’s a terrible idea. Why would you want to do that?’” Dr. Quake recalled. “He kind of pushed back and it was clear that he wasn’t listening to me.”Dr. Quake changed tack. “I said, ‘All right, if you’re not going to be convinced that I think this is a bad idea and you want to go down this path, then you need to do it properly and with proper respect for the people who are involved, and the field.’”That meant obtaining ethical approval from the equivalent of American institutional review boards (known as I.R.B.s), Dr. Quake advised, as well as getting informed consent from the couples participating and only editing genes to address a serious medical need.“I didn’t think it was something he would seriously do,” said Dr. Quake, adding that he assumed if Dr. He sought ethical approval and was rebuffed, “presumably he’d stop.”Soon afterward, Dr. He emailed: “I will take your suggestion that we will get a local ethic approve before we move on to the first genetic edited human baby. Please keep it in confidential.”In June 2017, Dr. He, nicknamed JK, emailed a document saying a hospital ethics committee had approved his proposal, in which he boasted that his plan could be compared to Nobel-winning research.“It was good to see that he had engaged with his I.R.B.-equivalent there and had approval to do his research, and I’m thinking it’s their responsibility to manage this,” Dr. Quake said in the interview. “If in my interactions with JK I had any hint of misconduct, I would have handled it completely differently. And I think I would have been very aggressive about telling people about that.”As a postdoctoral adviser to Dr. He and other students, Dr. Quake considered his role to be mentorship. Dr. He’s work in his lab did not involve gene editing; it concerned  immune responses to the flu vaccine.Dr. He was “bright and ambitious,” Dr. Quake said, but “he was, I felt, always in too much of a hurry and I, you know, worried that he was a sort that would cut corners a little bit.”After leaving for the university job in China in 2012, Dr. He sought Dr. Quake’s help with starting a company based on a genome-sequencing technique Dr. Quake had invented. Dr. Quake, whose American firm selling that technique had gone bankrupt, made introductions that helped Dr. He license patents for his company, Direct Genomics. Dr. Quake visited in 2015 but eventually declined an offer to serve on the company’s scientific advisory board.In Dr. He’s 2017 correspondence, he said he would be editing a gene called CCR5, altering a mutation that allows people to become infected with H.I.V. Many scientists have since argued it was medically unnecessary because babies of H.I.V.-positive parents can be protected other ways. Dr. Quake said he believed there was not scientific consensus about that.In early April 2018, Dr. He’s “Success!” email said “the embryo with CCR5 gene edited was transplanted to the women 10 days ago, and today the pregnancy is confirmed!”Dr. Quake did not reply immediately. Instead, he forwarded the email to someone he described as a senior gene-editing expert “who I felt could give me advice.” He redacted the name of the expert.“FYI this is probably the first human germ line editing,” Dr. Quake wrote. “I strongly urged him to get IRB approval, and it is my understanding that he did. His goal is to help hiv positive parents conceive. It’s a bit early for him to celebrate but if she carries to term it’s going to be big news I suspect.”The expert replied: “I was only telling someone last week that my assumption was that this had already happened. It will definitely be news …”Dr. Quake considered that response “very blasé,” he said. “He’s not surprised at all. And he’s not saying, ‘Oh my god, you got to notify the mythical science police.’”Six months later, in mid-October, Dr. He emailed again: “Great news! the baby is born (please keep it in confidential).”Dr. He asked to meet on a planned visit to San Francisco, saying, “I want get help from you on how to announce the result, PR and ethics.”Dr. Quake replied, “Let’s definitely meet up.”In that meeting, Dr. Quake recalled, Dr. He walked him through what he had done. “And I pressed him on the ethical approval, and I said this is going to get an enormous amount of attention, it’s going to be very closely scrutinized. Are you sure you’ve done everything correctly?”Dr. He’s response unsettled him, he said. “The little corner-cutting thing came up again: ‘Well, there were actually two hospitals involved and you know, we had approval from one and we did work at both hospitals.’ And I said, ‘Well you better make sure you have that straightened out.’”Back in China, Dr. He wrote: “Good news, the hospital which conducted the clinical trial approved the ethic letter,” adding, “They signed to acknowledge the ethic letters from another hospital.”Dr. Quake replied, “Great news, thanks for the update.”In late October, Dr. Quake texted someone he called an “extremely prominent scientist in the field,” writing: “First genome edited human baby — done! (in China, where else?)”“Interesting. Source?” the scientist responded.“Someone I know well who walked me through all the data,” Dr. Quake wrote. “Should go public soon.”He added, “Mums the word for a few more weeks but I thought you would like to know.”At the scientist’s suggestion, they spoke on the phone.Asked about the scientist’s reaction, Dr. Quake said, “Also not terribly surprised, not an oh-my-god thing, like it’s inevitable, like the inevitable has happened.”The scientist suggested that Dr. He share his work at a genome-editing conference in Hong Kong.About a week later, Dr. He’s publicist, Ryan Ferrell, contacted Dr. Quake, worried that Dr. He presenting the project publicly so soon could cause “severe and permanent harms to his reputation and the field.” And, “the twins are still in the hospital, so no positive imagery.”Dr. Quake, in Hong Kong for other commitments, met Dr. He and Mr. Ferrell, telling them, “you’re going to be held to a very high standard,” he said. “‘People’s first response is going to be you’re faking it.’”He advised Dr. He to submit the research to a peer-reviewed journal, and Dr. He did so.Then, because journal review takes time, Dr. Quake said he advised Dr. He not to go public in Hong Kong, but to speak privately with key experts there so they can “get socialized to what’s coming and will be more likely to comment favorably on your work.”But Dr. He was not persuaded. “I do not want to wait for 6 months or longer to announce the results, otherwise, people will say ‘a Chinese scientist secretly hide the baby for 6 months.’”Dr. Quake pushed back: “It is prudent to let the peer review process follow its course.”But Dr. He went forward with his Hong Kong talk. Two days before it, after news of the twins broke, Dr. Quake emailed, “Good luck with your upcoming presentation!” But he added, “please remove my name” from the slide acknowledging people who had helped.“He was spinning up this huge press thing around it,” Dr. Quake explained in the interview. “It was going to go well or poorly, I didn’t really know. But it wasn’t something I was involved in and I didn’t want my name on it.”Dr. Quake is not sure what consequences he thinks Dr. He should face.But he believes that the shock and horror some scientists now express belies the unruffled response of the experts he consulted.Asked if he should have handled things differently, Dr. Quake said: “Well, hindsight is 20-20. I mean, you could say yes I should have done many other things.”“But,” he continued, “as these things unfold, you’re in the moment, and you know, he’s doing legitimate scientific research — many people would define it that way. He’s got I.R.B. approval and his institution is regulating the human subject stuff and you sort of believe all that.”He added: “To the extent that it wasn’t obvious misconduct, what does a person in my position do? Encourage him to do it right, his research, right? I mean, that’s what I believed I was doing.”Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.OpinionJamie MetzlAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York City’s push to admit more black and Hispanic students to its best high schools has provoked strong emotions from Asian-American graduates. Here’s what they have to say. By Eliza Shapiro[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Mayor Bill de Blasio’s proposal to overhaul admissions for New York City’s elite high schools has proved highly divisive, leaving some Asian-American students feeling that they are being pitted against their black and Hispanic neighbors.His idea has also made the city a national focal point in the debate over race, class and fairness in education.If his plan — which would scrap the admissions exam and instead reserve seats at the eight specialized high schools for the top students at every city middle school — is approved by the Legislature, the selective schools’ racial makeup would change practically overnight. Offers to Asian-American students would fall by about half, according to a recent report, but would increase fivefold for black students. Last year, only 10 percent of the students in the city’s specialized high schools were black and Hispanic, though nearly 70 percent of the school system as a whole is black and Hispanic.And of 900 incoming freshman admitted to Stuyvesant — the most competitive of the schools — in 2018, only 10 were black. “There is not a single Asian-American I have spoken with who doesn’t think it’s a problem,” said John Liu, a Bronx High School of Science graduate and New York state senator.Though Mr. de Blasio’s proposal has sparked intense opposition from some Asian-American groups, interviews with eight alumni from four of the schools show that Asian-Americans are torn about the plan, and are grappling with the big questions it raises about how elite schools should select students in New York City and the rest of the country. Ms. Rahman grew up in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, and graduated from Binghamton University. She thinks the mayor’s plan is a “first but limited step” toward integration. “We used to joke that whoever had the most money to spend on test prep would probably go to Stuyvesant.” That was how Ms. Rahman was introduced to the specialized school debate as a young Bangladeshi immigrant living in Brooklyn.In high school, she came to believe that the admissions process was about money, not merit. Now, she said, “I feel like that system shouldn’t really exist.”That was partially because of how the high-stakes culture affected students. Ms. Rahman, who graduated high school in 2010, remembered that a boy in her year almost drowned in the school’s swimming pool after staying up all night to study. Ms. Rahman said she was sympathetic to the Asian-American families who want to keep the test — to a point. “I understand for them they feel they have little social capital in this country, one of the few things they have is being taken away,” she said. “But one thing I can’t accept is when they say things like, ‘Our kids have worked hard. We deserve this.’ The unspoken thing is that other kids in other families don’t deserve this.”Mr. Kim grew up in Elmhurst, Queens, and graduated from Princeton University. He strongly opposes the mayor’s plan.“The school is defined by the way students are selected,” said Mr. Kim, who moved from South Korea to Queens when he was 5. “If you change that, you change it all.”For Mr. Kim, a mediocre middle school student who was often in trouble, Stuyvesant, from which he graduated in 1993, was a life raft. Now, as the president of Stuyvesant’s alumni organization, an advocacy group with deep ties to politicians, he has one of the most powerful voices in the debate about specialized school admissions. And he believes that in order for future students to have the kind of experience he had, they have to gain admission the same way he did. The arguments for nixing the test have surprised and offended him. “How is this possible, that people are saying we’re segregated, we’re Jim Crow,” Mr. Kim said. “These words are too harsh. It makes me feel like I’m a bad person.”Mr. Kwan grew up in Chinatown, Manhattan, and graduated from Hunter College. He mostly backs the plan, but understands the misgivings. “The schools are a hope, a mythology, a dream,” said Mr. Kwan, who does not believe that going to a specialized school will help Asian-Americans get to the highest levels of business and government in America. “Getting into the school is not a guaranteed ticket to success, and being in another school shouldn’t be a guaranteed failure,” he said.Mr. Kwan, who graduated high school in 1999, can’t remember a time before he knew about the specialized high school exam — referred to as simply “the test” — when he was growing up. “It was a scary time in Chinatown,” he said of the week admissions offers went out. Two decades later, he is frustrated that the mayor did not consult Asian-American leaders before announcing the plan. “There’s a general sense that the larger Asian-American community is underrepresented and ignored,” Mr. Kwan said.Ms. Ahmad grew up in Fresh Meadows, Queens, and graduated from New York University. She is in favor of the mayor’s proposal.Ms. Ahmad, who moved to Queens from Pakistan when she was an infant and graduated from high school in 2012, believes Asian families who do not support the city’s plan are ignoring a crucial point. “I think what people are missing when they say we are being punished, what they are neglecting to see is, the Asian-American community by and large has a lot of privilege that the black and Latinx community does not,” she said, referring to an “elaborate system of networks, test prep and social capital.”“We aren’t dealing with the generational trauma of slavery, Jim Crow and redlining,” said Ms. Ahmad, noting that her father is a taxi driver and her family is far from wealthy. Still, she said, “People discount the fact that we have more resources, we are more privileged, and because of that, white Americans tend to hold us up as a model minority.”“A lot of people think we’re a monolith, and this is not just the case,” Ms. Ahmad said, referring to Asian-American specialized school alumni. Mr. Rapatalo grew up in East Flatbush, Brooklyn, and graduated from New York University. He supports the admissions reform plan.Mr. Rapatalo’s voice cracked when he explained why he is such a forceful supporter of change at his alma mater. “I’m fighting for my friends,” said Mr. Rapatalo, who grew up in a mostly black part of Brooklyn.Well over two decades after he graduated in 1993, Mr. Rapatalo can still name all of the black students in his class, along with the other Filipino-American students. He said that showed just how segregated the school was — and still is. When he sees comments on alumni Facebook groups suggesting that black and Hispanic students do not work hard, Mr. Rapatalo thinks, “How dare you? How many black and brown people do you know?” Mr. Rapatalo said he worried that Asian-American families who support the test were playing a losing game of specialized school admissions chess. “Just because we’ve gamed the system, does that mean we’re in the right?” Mr. Rapatalo asked. “The folks at the bottom fight for scraps.” But all the while, he added, “white families have it figured out.”Mr. Fung grew up in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, and graduated from Stanford University. He supports affirmative action policies, but opposes the mayor’s plan.“It’s all related.” That is the message Mr. Fung took from his run-in with Mark Zuckerberg in a Stanford University computer lab shortly after Facebook launched. Mr. Fung, who was later hired to be Facebook’s 15th engineer, said his chance encounter was not luck. He was there, he said, because of the opportunities Stuyvesant gave him. Mr. Fung, who graduated from the school in 1998, has spent the last few months wrestling with competing, deeply held beliefs: that elite schools everywhere should be more racially diverse, and that New York’s Asian-American families have a great deal to lose if specialized school admissions are changed.He wants change that would enroll more black and Hispanic students in the schools. But he opposes Mr. de Blasio’s approach, calling it “an experiment.”“If you go to either extreme, some group is losing out,” he said. “If we go with de Blasio’s proposal, people like me maybe wouldn’t have been able to get into a specialized high school,” he said. “That’s our only avenue to a good college.”Ms. Tan grew up in Chinatown, Manhattan, and graduated from Columbia University. She backs the specialized high school plan, but wants the city to release a broader school integration plan as well.“I know what it does to kids, when you don’t see anyone except for one race,” said Ms. Tan, who has spent her teaching career in low-income public schools in Chicago and Brooklyn. Ms. Tan, who graduated from high school in 2007, recalled talking to a Stuyvesant graduate who had only met five black people before he went to college. “That really doesn’t do much for students who are trying to be in a more diverse world,” she added.As a teacher, she has learned what selective admissions processes do to vulnerable students left behind. “Creaming of the crop harms schools and neighborhoods,” she said. “It pushes kids to say, ‘I can get out of this neighborhood, I don’t have to give back.’”Mr. Liu grew up in Bayside, Queens, and graduated from Binghamton University. He is keeping “an open mind” about the proposal.“These schools have been a very central part of my life,” Mr. Liu, the former city comptroller and mayoral candidate, said. He and his brother each commuted four hours round-trip to Bronx Science; his wife graduated from Brooklyn Tech; and their son went to Stuyvesant. As the newly appointed chair of the State Senate’s New York City education committee, he will now help determine the fate of the admissions exam.“Asian-Americans are just as concerned about the seeming lack of diversity” as the rest of the city, Mr. Liu said. But he is furious with Mr. de Blasio and the schools chancellor, Richard A. Carranza, over how they presented their proposal.“The way de Blasio rolled this out, he turned it in a zero-sum race based on race,” he said. “That’s an absolute nonstarter from the get-go.” The mayor, Mr. Liu added, “pitted people against each other.” The chancellor last year said, “I just don’t buy into the narrative that any one ethnic group owns admission to these schools.” Mr. Liu said it was a comment “that nobody will forget or forgive him for.”Eliza Shapiro is a reporter covering New York City education. She joined The Times in 2018. Eliza grew up in New York City and attended public and private schools in Manhattan and Brooklyn.  @elizashapiro Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump plans to nominate David Malpass, the under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs, to head the World Bank, according to administration officials.He’s likely to land the gig. “The nomination must be ratified by the bank’s board,” writes Peter Baker of the NYT, “but by tradition, the United States, the largest shareholder, has long named its president.” Mr. Trump is expected to announce his pick tomorrow.And he could shake things up. “Like Mr. Trump, he has questioned the scope and mission of international institutions such as the World Bank, saying they have grown ‘more intrusive’ and need to be refocused,” Mr. Baker writes. “The larger trend toward multilateralism, he has said, ‘has gone substantially too far.’”That makes him a contentious choice. “The prospect of such a steadfast critic of multilateral lenders leading the World Bank has already sparked concern and dismay within the institution and among international and former U.S. officials who deal with global finance and development,” write James Politi and Sam Fleming of the FT.There were less controversial options. Indra K. Nooyi, the former C.E.O. of PepsiCo; Ray Washburne, the president of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation; and Heidi Cruz, a Goldman Sachs executive and the wife of Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, were all reportedly considered.After the government shutdown postponed his annual address to Congress, President Trump will finally deliver the speech tonight. (His theme? “Choosing Greatness.”) Here’s what’s coming up:A trade plea. He will call on Congress to back the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Free Trade Agreement, meant to replace Nafta. A draft of the speech described Americans as suffering “decades of flawed trade deals.”Plus one for infrastructure. He’s also expected to urge lawmakers to find budget space for repairing and upgrading roads, bridges and more. But the WSJ reports that Mr. Trump feels iffy about some elements of his previous proposals, including private-public partnerships.Border wall demands. Mr. Trump still plans to request money to pay for a wall between the U.S. and Mexico, though he lost support during the shutdown. He is still considering declaring a national emergency to get it, despite an expected challenge from Democrats and growing opposition among Republican senators.And the rebuttal. Democrats’ response will come from Stacey Abrams, a rising star who narrowly lost last year’s race for Georgia’s governorship. (Many in the party want her to run for Senate next year; she may do so.)For decades, Bill Gross was a titan of finance. He turned the investment firm Pimco into a $2 trillion giant. But by the time he announced his retirement yesterday from Janus Henderson Investments — the firm he joined in 2014 after a dispute with Pimco — he was at a low point.The numbers prove it. “Pimco Total Return, the fund he once ruled, returned 2.54 percent, annualized, in the three years through Friday, trouncing the paltry 0.95 percent returned by his new fund, Janus Henderson Global Unconstrained,” Jeff Sommer of the NYT writes. His Janus fund shrank from a peak of $2.2 billion to under $1 billion last year. Mr. Gross was an icon of the bond world. He drew investors by combining mathematical models and broad economic analyses. He advised the Treasury Department during the 2008 financial crisis and gained a reputation as a quirky oracle of the financial world.But he made one fatal error. Robin Wigglesworth of the FT asks whether Mr. Gross was more lucky than brilliant and how much of his success was owed to former colleagues. He picks brilliance, but adds, “Even investing stars need a supporting cast to excel, and forgetting this can be hazardous.”Need evidence that U.S. law enforcement is taking potential thefts of American technology seriously? Look no further than a report by Bloomberg Businessweek about an F.B.I. sting operation targeting Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant.How it went down: An American start-up, Akahn, claims to have developed glass that can make smartphone screens nearly indestructible, and has shopped it around smartphone makers. But Huawei took suspicious liberties when testing a sample. The F.B.I. got involved, ultimately organizing a sting on Huawei executives in Las Vegas last month.Businessweek got a ringside seat. Erik Schatzker, the article’s author, writes that he watched the sting operation from 100 feet away, “in front of a gelato stand.”What now? Unclear. “It’s possible that the government will conclude there aren’t grounds for an indictment,” Mr. Schatzker writes. “If that’s so, it raises a question about the broader U.S. crackdown on Huawei: Is it based on hard evidence of wrongdoing or driven by a desperation to catch the Chinese company doing something — anything — bad?” But an indictment “would show just how far and wide Huawei is willing to go to steal American trade secrets.”More Huawei news: Some telecom companies are standing by the company despite all the scrutiny. And Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany set out conditions that Huawei must meet to build 5G networks in her country.Automation is changing work, flushing people without a college degree out of productive industries like manufacturing and high-tech services and into low-wage dead-end jobs, Eduardo Porter of the NYT writes:• “There is a small island of highly educated professionals making good wages at corporations like Intel or Boeing, which reap hundreds of thousands of dollars in profit per employee.”• But “the employment footprint of highly productive industries, like finance, manufacturing, information services and wholesale trade, has shrunk over the last 30 years.”• “That island sits in the middle of a sea of less educated workers who are stuck at businesses like hotels, restaurants and nursing homes that generate much smaller profits per employee and stay viable primarily by keeping wages low.”• “Recent research has concluded that robots are reducing the demand for workers and weighing down wages, which have been rising more slowly than the productivity of workers.”Democrats in New York State’s Senate are fighting Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s $3 billion plan to bring Amazon offices to Queens — and may have the power to halt it altogether.What happened: The Senate named Senator Michael Gianaris, who has called the incentives promised to Amazon “offensive,” to the little-known Public Authorities Control Board.Why that matters: The board, as Mr. Cuomo has noted, will vote on Amazon’s so-called HQ2 plan, and could veto it. (It helped block Michael Bloomberg’s plan to build a stadium in Manhattan’s West Side 14 years ago.)What’s next: The governor could reject Mr. Gianaris’s nomination, but it would lead to a political fight. Mr. Cuomo’s office said that the nomination put the self-interest of a flip-flopping opponent of Amazon “above the state’s economic growth.” Mr. Gianaris said he wouldn’t use the position to seek concessions from Amazon: “I’m not looking to negotiate a better deal.”More Jeff Bezos news: Washington Post employees aren’t happy that their company’s owner paid over $10 million for a Super Bowl ad.The Federal Reserve’s chairman spent the evening of his 66th birthday dining at the White House with President Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.On the agenda: “Recent economic developments and the outlook for growth, employment and inflation,” according to a Federal Reserve statement. “He did not discuss his expectations for monetary policy, except to stress that the path of policy will depend entirely on incoming economic information and what that means for the outlook.”And on the menu? Steak, an anonymous source told the WSJ.Michael O’Leary will become the C.E.O. of Ryanair’s parent company, but will relinquish that role at the airline.Deals• The workplace messaging company Slack filed confidentially to go public. It’s skipping the traditional I.P.O. process in the same way Spotify did, by pursuing a direct listing. (NYT)• Vivendi is reportedly considering selling a stake in Universal Music Group, valuing the business at $25 billion. (Bloomberg)• Papa John’s received a $200 million investment from Starboard Value, the activist hedge fund, and named the investment firm’s chief, Jeffrey Smith, as its chairman. (WSJ)• An investor group led by Hellman & Friedman agreed to buy Ultimate Software Group, an H.R. specialist, for about $11 billion. (WSJ)• Gannett rejected a $1.3 billion hostile takeover bid by the hedge-fund backed publisher MNG Enterprises. (NYT)• The E.U.’s expected rejection of a merger of Siemens’s and Alstom’s rail businesses raises questions about its antitrust policies. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• Federal prosecutors ordered the Trump inaugural committee to hand over documents about its donors and finances. (NYT)• President Trump plans to name a former oil lobbyist, David Bernhardt, as interior secretary. (NYT)• “Soak the rich” tax proposals by Democratic lawmakers have drawn condemnation from colleagues in Washington — but polls show voters support them. (Politico)• Howard Schultz will take three to four months to decide whether to run for president as an independent, and promised not to inadvertently help re-elect Mr. Trump. (Politico)• A case that Congress and Mr. Trump should increase spending to prevent an economic slowdown. (NYT Op-Ed)Trade• Some trade hard-liners fear that President Trump is being played by China during current negotiations. If the talks fail, the U.N. warns that subsequent tariff increases could be “significantly negative” for global trade. (Bloomberg, BBC)• How U.S. criminal laws became weapons in the China trade war. (DealBook)• And how China’s online censorship helps stifle trade. (NYT Op-Ed)Tech• Google’s parent, Alphabet, reported that its profit margins shrank in the fourth quarter because of huge investments. Investors wiped 3 percent off its share price in after-hours trading. (FT)• As Facebook turned 15 years old yesterday, Mark Zuckerberg complained that people “overly emphasize the negative” aspects of its impact. (Facebook)• There’s interest in Silicon Valley in a wealth tax. But a major obstacle is how to value private-company assets. (Information)• Instagram’s chief, Adam Mosseri, said that the social network hadn’t done enough to help prevent suicide and self-harm. (Telegraph)• Quadriga CX, a digital money exchange, has about $145 million of its customers’ cryptocurrency locked with passwords its former C.E.O. took with him to the grave. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May will head to Northern Ireland today to rally support for her Brexit deal with the E.U., and promises that she will “find a way” to keep the Irish border open. (Bloomberg)• The issue has left the Bank of England uncertain whether to raise interest rates. (FT)• Britain will ease import regulations to make a no-deal Brexit less problematic for its businesses. (WSJ)• Reportedly, it could even cut import tariffs to zero in that scenario, which some British companies find far from reassuring. (HuffPo)• The Bank of England and European regulators agreed to cooperate on oversight of clearinghouses to keep trades flowing smoothly if no deal is reached. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Australian banks overcharged clients, including clients who had died. (NYT)• A Federal Reserve paper says that negative rates would have accelerated America’s economic recovery. (WSJ)• Russia’s economic growth looks sensational. It may be too good to be true. (Bloomberg Opinion)• Betting on low-volatility stocks is usually safe. Not now. (Bloomberg)• An annual income of $81,000 puts you in India’s 1 percent; in the U.A.E., it’s $894,000. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump might keep some tariffs on Chinese goods even if Beijing and Washington reach a trade agreement, he told the NYT yesterday, after delegates from both countries wrapped up another round of negotiations.“Without the tariffs, we wouldn’t be talking,” he said in an interview.How were the discussions? According to Mr. Trump’s posts on Twitter, they went well, “with good intent and spirit on both sides.” He hosted the negotiators in the Oval Office and suggested that President Xi Jinping of China was willing to welcome more American companies and to buy more American products — including five million tons of soybeans. The Chinese representatives, led by the American-educated vice premier, Liu He, said that the two sides had made “important progress” and had “candid, specific and fruitful” talks. Robert Lighthizer, the top American trade negotiator, was less sanguine. “We did not come off the rails,” he said. “That’s significant.”What’s next? The two sides hope to reach an agreement by early March, before Mr. Trump plans to increase tariffs after a 90-day truce. Mr. Lighthizer and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will go to Beijing after the Chinese New Year holiday this month to prepare for  talks between the two presidents. Mr. Trump said that summit meeting would happen “in the near future” and that it would address “some of the long standing and more difficult points.” According to Myron Brilliant, the head of international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “we are in the fifth inning of a nine-inning game.” He also used another sports analogy to describe the negotiations:I would now say we are at halftime of the Super Bowl of trade relations.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Facebook’s 35,000 employees got a reminder this week of Apple’s power over their day-to-day routines. So did workers at Google.After Facebook and Google ran afoul of Apple’s rules for distributing apps, Apple hit back by blocking the two Silicon Valley giants from using the internal apps and updates that run on iPhone software.Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, told the NYT that the offending app had not been a secret and had operated with users’ consent. Apple eventually restored access for both Facebook and Google, but its point had been made: Cross us at your peril.The tension with Apple was not Facebook’s only concern.• The social network, in a collaboration with Twitter, said that other countries appeared to be following the Russian playbook for using social media to disseminate propaganda and disinformation. One campaign, from Iran, touched on the conflict in Syria and conspiracy theories about the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Facebook said it had removed 783 pages, groups and accounts with ties to Iran, while Twitter said it had taken down more than 2,000 accounts.• Facebook, already being investigated by the authorities in Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York, is also said to be the target of several more inquiries, including in Connecticut, Illinois and Pennsylvania, over its mishandling of user data.Deutsche has been in a lot of trouble for a very long time. Now, it’s looking increasingly probable that the German government will step in to combine it with its smaller, but also struggling competitor, Commerzbank.Deutsche reported its first full-year net profit since 2014 today but still failed to meet analysts’ expectations. Its fourth quarter showed continued weakness.The bank has lurched through various failed restructuring efforts, has been hit with fine after fine and was recently raided by prosecutors pursuing a money-laundering investigation. Its stock price has more than halved in the past year. If it is unable to recover on its own, it is thought a merger with Commerzbank may occur by midyear.But that may not be wise, writes Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg:The deal looks like the option of last resort. Combining two of Europe’s most inefficient banks to create an even bigger supertanker would require tens of thousands of job cuts and a risky (read costly) integration to stand a chance of working.The Labor Department will release its monthly estimate of hiring and unemployment at 8:30 a.m. But there’s even more uncertainty than usual, writes the NYT’s Ben Casselman. Here’s what to look for:Crucial time: The United States’ decade-long expansion could be nearing its end, and the partial government shutdown has added to those fears. Not all the effects will show up in the jobs data, but they will make the report unusually hard to interpret.Potential impact: There is one place the shutdown will probably show up: the jobless rate. Unemployment could go up by one- or two-tenths of a percentage point.Solid foundation: The job market is strong, however. Claims for unemployment insurance recently hit a nearly 50-year low, and paychecks are growing.Investors looked to earnings reports yesterday from two bellwethers of the U.S. economy: Amazon and General Electric. Both seem to be struggling with growing pains.Stiff competition: The latest quarterly results suggested that Amazon’s retail business not only faced more competition, it was also maturing, as growth slowed from its usual breakneck pace. But the company compensated by expanding its highly profitable cloud and advertising businesses. Its revenue guidance fell short of expectations, sending shares down sharply in after-hours trading.Seeking a turnaround: G.E.’s fourth-quarter results pointed to the depth of the company’s challenges, despite a strong performance by the company’s jet engine business. G.E. made no forecast for what its profit and revenue would look like this year, and its chief executive, Lawrence Culp, said that 2019 was “still very much a work in progress.” The company also said that it had reached a $1.5 billion settlement in an investigation of its role in the 2008 financial crisis, reassuring investors.More earnings news: Nintendo shares dropped more than 9.3 percent after it cut its full-year target for sales of its Switch video game console.Intel named its interim chief executive, Robert Swan, as its permanent leader, ending a seven-month search. (NYT)Symantec said its chief financial officer, Nicholas Noviello, planned to step down in the coming months to pursue other opportunities. (FT)John Brumby, a former Australian lawmaker, retired from the board of the Australian subsidiary of Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant. (FT)Deals• Blackstone and Apollo, two of the biggest private equity firms, recorded sharp declines in profit in the fourth quarter of 2018 after investments were hit by rocky markets. (FT)• Seeking to narrow its focus to consumer appliances, Electrolux plans to spin off a unit that supplies restaurants and hotels with food, beverages and equipment. (FT)• Blackstone said it would buy a controlling stake in Tallgrass Energy, a midstream energy company, for $3.3 billion. (Reuters)Tech• Jeff Bezos’s space venture, Blue Origin, reached a deal with Telesat of Canada to launch part of a satellite constellation intended to provide faster internet access. (Reuters)• New e-commerce rules in India caused widespread disruption on Amazon’s website there. (Reuters)• Elon Musk blamed layoffs at SpaceX on the company’s “two absolutely insane projects.” (CNBC)• Mark Zuckerberg added $6.2 billion to his net worth after Facebook posted revenue that beat Wall Street estimates, sending its shares soaring. (Bloomberg)Politics & Policy• President Trump said in an exclusive interview with the NYT that he would proceed with a border wall regardless of the result of talks with lawmakers and dismissed any suggestions of wrongdoing in the investigations that have ensnared his associates. (NYT)• The Republican-led Senate voted 68 to 23 to advance legislation that strongly opposes President Trump’s withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Syria and Afghanistan. (NYT)• President Trump signed an executive order intended to funnel more federal funding into infrastructure projects that employ American workers. (NYT)• Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the Senate majority leader, called Democratic legislation that aims to clear obstacles to voting and to make Election Day a federal holiday a “power grab.” (NYT)• Mr. Trump is said to be considering Herman Cain, the former pizza company executive and Republican presidential candidate, for a seat on the Federal Reserve Board. (Bloomberg)• Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, wants a 2 percent tax on household wealth exceeding $50 million, and a 3 percent tax for those with more than $1 billion. Here’s how the plan from the presidential hopeful would work. (Bloomberg)• Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has his own plan to subject billionaires to a 77 percent estate tax. Here’s how much Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates and Warren Buffett would have to pay. (CNBC)Best of the Rest• Fears that supply chains will be severely disrupted in the event of a no-deal Brexit are leading to shortages of food and medicines in Britain. (Reuters)• Nearly a third of British companies could move their operations abroad because of Brexit, according to a recent survey. (BBC)• The timing of Italy’s recession could not be worse: Europe is at an economic standstill, raising anxieties that the world is on the verge of a significant slowdown. (NYT)• The Venezuelan company Citgo Petroleum, one of the largest refiners in the U.S., is considering bankruptcy after the Trump administration placed sanctions on Venezuela’s oil sector. (WSJ)• Chinese factories increasingly make goods for the country’s middle class, but when those consumers hold back, local workers can suffer. (NYT)• Lime, a scooter start-up based in San Francisco, is raising $400 million in its latest funding round, which values the company at $2 billion. (WSJ)• Palantir, a data-mining company, is handing out more bonuses and cheaper stock options after a succession of shareholder write-downs and political controversies tied to its co-founder, Peter Thiel. (Bloomberg)• Shell Oil reached a tentative agreement with the United Steelworkers union to increase pay by 11 percent over three years for 30,000 American workers. (Reuters)• Banks and smaller companies helped lift the stock market, a sign that investors are favoring sectors tied to the U.S. economy as trade tensions cloud global growth. (WSJ)• E.U. antitrust authorities have accused eight banks of colluding from 2007 to 2012 to manipulate the market for eurozone government bonds. (FT)• The cosmetics company e.l.f. Beauty imported 156 shipments of false eyelash kits with material sourced from North Korea, violating sanctions. The company will pay a settlement of nearly $1 million to the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control. (CNBC)• As China’s economy slows, gambling revenue in Macau fell 5 percent to $3.1 billion in January, the first fall since July 2016. (FT)• The polar vortex may cost American retailers and restaurants nearly $1 billion. (FT)• Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the country’s largest bank, may struggle if a powerful government inquiry intensifies regulatory pressure. (Reuters)• The curious case of why shares of PG&E rose after the utility company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.In a sharp reversal of the stance it took just week ago, the Fed’s chairman, Jerome Powell, said yesterday it had “the luxury of patience” in deciding whether to raise rates again, writes the NYT’s Binyamin Appelbaum.The news: The Fed left its benchmark interest rate unchanged, a decision that was widely expected. What surprised markets was the indication that rates, which are in a range of 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent, would stay put for some time.The reaction: Mr. Powell’s comments soothed Wall Street, sending stocks higher, something President Trump cheered on Twitter. But the U-turn puzzled some investors and one warned of a slowing economy.More: In a separate statement, the Fed signaled that it might reduce “quantitative tightening,” the policy of selling its bond portfolio, which could be a challenge for Mr. Powell. Here’s a guide to what’s going on.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Advertisers pay for space expecting to reach potential spenders.Facebook, which says it has access to 2.32 billion people, seems like a prime avenue of exposure. But how many are spammers, scammers or flat-out fakes? Jack Nicas, who explored the social media network’s fluctuating, confusing account estimates, reckons even Facebook may not be sure.Yesterday, the company said in tiny lettering at the bottom of a slide about its earnings that it believes that there are 116 million fake accounts on its site, a 36 percent increase from 2017’s figure, which was itself 359 percent higher than the number disclosed in 2016. Its estimated number of duplicates rose 20 percent year over year, to 255 million.How many unauthorized accounts does Facebook take down each quarter? Enough to encompass as much of 35 percent of the network’s active users, data suggests. And some analysts suspect that the company’s user counts involve more guesswork than it lets on.But the money keeps coming in: Facebook emerged from a string of privacy scandals last year with a 30 percent boost in revenue and a 61 percent upswing in profit. Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, confirmed that Facebook plans to integrate the technical infrastructure of its WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger apps by the end of the year or by early 2020.A bot scandal reaches a conclusion: The attorney general of New York reached a settlement with Devumi, a company that sold hundreds of millions of fake followers on Twitter and other platforms before going out of business last year.Is Apple’s Tim Cook Facebook’s privacy watchdog? After determining that the social network had violated the rules of an Apple developer program, Mr. Cook moved to block access. Our columnist Kevin Roose wonders whether Mr. Cook is becoming a technology regulator of last resort.The Arctic air mass sweeping across the Midwest and the Northeast brought a deep and sometimes deadly chill that caused traffic to snarl and the ground to crack.It is so cold that shops have closed, restaurants have shuttered and petting farm owners are struggling. Any lasting effect on commerce should be slight, however.It is so cold that, in Wisconsin, beer distributors stopped truck deliveries out of fear that their cargo would freeze solid. Amtrak canceled trains. Six in ten flights into and out of Chicago were canceled. Airlines have waived fees for changing flights. One towing company in Michigan received 40 calls for help in three hours.It is so cold that all of Cargill’s grain plants in the Midwest are closed, some shifts at a Tyson Foods pork plant in Iowa have been canceled and the hog slaughter has paused at a Hormel Foods facility in Minnesota.It is so cold that Disney on Ice has called off a performance in Chicago.It is so cold that General Motors has suspended production at several plants in Michigan because of an emergency appeal by the local utility, overwhelmed with heating demand.It is so cold that Republicans and Democrats are reaching across the aisle in Washington so they can huddle together for warmth. Just kidding.Facebook had company from other tech firms when reporting its earnings yesterday.Nokia, which now focuses on telecom equipment, warned that it would have a slow start to 2019, though it expects more business from companies building 5G mobile networks later in the year. Samsung, whose operating profit plunged 29 percent amid a decline in demand for memory chips, also said earnings this year might struggle. PayPal disappointed analysts, too, even as its revenue rose.But Qualcomm beat Wall Street expectations and issued a forecast that assuaged some concerns about a weak smartphone market in China. Other companies also had good news.Microsoft, often considered an indicator of the broader market, said that its commercial and consumer businesses were doing well, with revenue and profit increasing more than 10 percent from a year earlier. Its continued shift to cloud computing has placed it within striking distance of Amazon, which leads the field.Alibaba, China’s largest e-commerce business, said that its earnings growth sank last quarter and that its revenue, which rose 41 percent, had increased at its slowest pace since early 2016. Executives said that, while “the slowdown of macro might cause concerns in the market,” the company had minimal exposure to the trade war with Washington and e-commerce was healthier than the overall Chinese economy.Tesla, the electric carmaker, reported its second straight quarterly profit, but said that its $139 million in fourth quarter earnings was less than what it brought in during the third quarter. The company expects to deliver as many as 400,000 cars this year, up from 245,000 last year. And it said it had $3.7 billion in cash to carry it through a $920 million bond payment in March.Foxconn, the Taiwanese electronics behemoth, is rethinking its plan to build a $10 billion plant in Wisconsin with 13,000 jobs, a proposal that was hailed by President Trump. It’s now considering a shift toward research, underscoring the difficult economics of manufacturing in the United States, write the NYT’s Natalie Kitroeff, Patricia Cohen and Monica Davey:That turn runs counter to Mr. Trump’s vision for the project, which he had cited as a milestone in reversing the decline in factory jobs. The twist also brought new friction in Wisconsin, where the initiative has been politically fraught from the start because of its billions of dollars in tax subsidies.Foxconn said that it remained committed to creating 13,000 jobs, but economists questioned how such a large work force could be created if the plant’s focus was on other areas.A lack of clarity over the terms of Britain’s looming departure from the European Union has British businesses stockpiling products and delaying investments, writes the NYT’s Peter Goodman.The options: Parliament may yet approve Prime Minister Theresa May’s unpopular exit deal — she survived a critical vote on Tuesday that could have derailed it — especially if the alternative is a tumultuous no-deal departure.The reaction: Companies must plan for outcomes both wildly unknown and potentially damaging. They are making backup plans while having no idea how it will end.The cost: By one estimate, the British economy is already 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if voters had backed E.U. membership in a 2016 referendum. The main culprit is uncertainty. Investment in the auto industry plunged last year. The cost of separation is apparent in finance, housing and other areas, too. Food retailers have warned of delays and shortages.More European news: Two engines of the eurozone economy, France and Germany, are cooling, a trend that threatens to deepen the pain across the Continent. Italy fell into a recession in the last quarter of 2018 after its economy shrank by 0.2 percent.Zach Kirkhorn will become Tesla’s chief financial officer after Deepak Ahuja retires. (Bloomberg)Deals • General Electric said it would merge its battery storage and electrical grid units into its wind turbine and hydropower business, and suitors are gathering for the jet leasing unit of its lending business, GE Capital. (Reuters, WSJ)• United Natural Foods accused Goldman Sachs of improperly extracting more than $200 million while advising it on its acquisition of the grocery chain Supervalu. (WSJ)• Elliott Management, an activist hedge fund, is making a push into full-blown takeovers. (WSJ)Tech • Apple is said to be planning a more powerful 3-D camera for iPhones, to help with augmented reality plans. (Bloomberg)• Lyft sued New York State over its minimum wage for drivers. (WSJ)Politics and policy• Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, approves of higher taxes for the rich, if the revenue is spent in a way that he considers wise. (Bloomberg)• President Trump called top intelligence officials who had contradicted him “naïve.” (NYT)• Starting in April, 5,340 more immigrants with an advanced degree from an American university may be selected for a coveted visa. (WSJ)• Lawmakers introduced legislation to limit Mr. Trump’s power to impose import tariffs. (Reuters)Best of the rest • Muslims have petitioned Nike to recall its Air Max 270 shoes, which are said to feature a design on the sole that resembles “Allah” in Arabic script. (Bloomberg)• Nearly 30 percent of company directors in Australia are women, up from 19.4 percent in 2015, leapfrogging the U.S., Britain and Canada in female representation in the boardroom. (FT)• More than $4 billion was paid out over the past decade to members of the Sackler family, which owns the drugmaker Purdue Pharma, even as sales of the opioid painkiller OxyContin waned, according to court documents. (WSJ)• Beer companies, casinos and other corporations are funneling record amounts into the U.S. wind and solar power industry, taking advantage of plunging costs, favorable tax breaks and a public relations boost. (WSJ)• Hedge funds are displaying levels of risk aversion that would be expected after a financial crisis. (Bloomberg)• Former U.S. intelligence operatives helped the United Arab Emirates spy on its enemies using technological techniques taught by the federal government. The secret operation was known as Project Raven. (Reuters)• It’s an election year in India. Gold consumption is likely to increase. (Bloomberg)• Sri Lanka’s constitutional crisis — in which the president and prime minister have faced off — has forced it to borrow heavily from China. (WSJ)• Phillips, a boutique auction house, sold $916.5 million of art and collectibles last year, the most in its 220-year history. A 1932 painting by Pablo Picasso fetched $57.8 million; a Rolex watch known as “The Unicorn” sold for $5.9 million. (Bloomberg)• A breakdown of the Super Bowl ad market, with a look at the beer company that spends the most. (WSJ)• Chinese consumers and their desire for handbags, Hennessy and other luxury products from LVMH helped add $4.3 billion to its chief executive Bernard Arnault’s fortune. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Friday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byPor Albinson LinaresBuen día, bienvenido al boletín diario de The New York Times en Español. Si aún no estás suscrito, puedes darte de alta en este enlace.¿Tienes sugerencias? ¿Quieres hacernos llegar tu opinión? Escríbenos a esta dirección.• Entre Estados Unidos y México: mucho más que 3000 kilómetros de frontera. Los periodistas Azam Ahmed y Meridith Kohut están viajando a lo largo del borde que limita los dos países, donde hay rejas, puentes, desiertos y dos ríos que unen y separan a las comunidades de ambos lados. En su cuarta entrega, visitan el puente peatonal que conecta a Eagle Pass, Texas, con Piedras Negras, Coahuila; muchos ahora cruzan a nado de manera ilegal debido a un nuevo punto de control.“Así es como se solicita asilo ahora. No hay otra forma de cruzar”, dijo Óscar Antonio González, un hondureño de 21 años que se frotaba por el frío que sentía mientras observaba a sus compatriotas atravesar el río.• El colapso de una represa desata la indignación de los brasileños contra las mineras. La ruptura de una represa en la ciudad brasileña de Brumadinho dejó decenas de muertos y cientos de desaparecidos el viernes; para muchos brasileños, este nuevo caso evidencia la debilidad de las regulaciones a la industria minera. La situación preocupa a la opinión pública porque una inspección reciente clasificó a la estructura colapsada como “estable”.“Nos dijeron que si algo ocurría, una alarma se activaría para darnos tiempo de sacar todo”, dijo Dari Pereira, un operador de maquinaria de 39 años que escapó con su familia poco antes de que un río de fango arrasara con su casa. “Segundos después de que corrimos, vi a una ola llevarse todo, la casa, todo”.• El Chapo no testificará. Después de diez semanas y de la comparecencia de 56 testigos, la procuraduría en Nueva York dio por concluida la presentación de su caso en contra del narcotraficante mexicano, quien anunció a su vez que no va a declarar en defensa propia. El testimonio de todos los testigos, en su conjunto, fue arrollador.Los declarantes describieron a Joaquín Guzmán Loera como alguien que se dedicó durante más de treinta años a traficar toneladas de drogas de Centroamérica a México y de ahí hacia Estados Unidos y Canadá, y lo acusaron de haber sobornado a integrantes de casi todos los niveles de la policía, el ejército y la política de México, incluido un supuesto pago de 100 millones de dólares al expresidente Enrique Peña Nieto.“Maduro habla de diálogo y de negociación, pero luego persigue y reprime a los ciudadanos. Más que escuchar sus palabras hay que saber leer sus acciones. El chavismo usa el tiempo y desafía la violencia, como si deseara secretamente jugar con el límite de una guerra”.El escritor venezolano Alberto Barrera Tyszka analiza la encrucijada política de su país, que —por ahora— pareciera tener dos presidentes. Según Barrera, el chavismo funciona bajo una lógica militar y entiende el diálogo como otra acción bélica, por lo que el régimen de Nicolás Maduro usa el tiempo y el desgaste de las negociaciones a su favor.Chilenos perdidos en la Unión Soviética. Mientras el mundo se paralizaba por el Mundial de Rusia, el fotógrafo chileno Marcos Zegers afinó la vista un poco más. Leyó en las noticias sobre la historia de unos viejos compatriotas: 93 estudiantes que en 1973 viajaron becados a la Unión Soviética para aprender lo último en modernización del campo. Eran pioneros de un proyecto que terminó abruptamente con el golpe de Estado contra Salvador Allende. “Entonces dije: ‘Me voy a Rusia, pase lo que pase porque esta historia no tiene imágenes y alguien se las tiene que poner’”, cuenta el fotógrafo, quien solo se llevó sus equipos, una bolsa de dormir y se largó hasta cerca de la frontera con Ucrania para documentar la vida de estos hombres. Las imágenes de su proyecto pueden verse en este trabajo.• Afganistán, un paso más cerca de la paz [en inglés]. Representantes de Estados Unidos y de los talibanes aceptaron el borrador de un acuerdo de paz, el mayor paso hacia el fin de esa guerra que ya lleva diecisiete años. Los insurgentes garantizarían que los terroristas nunca utilizarán el territorio afgano, lo que podría lograr la retirada total de las tropas estadounidenses a cambio de otras concesiones, según informó el lunes Zalmay Khalilzad, jefe negociador de Estados Unidos.“Los talibanes se han comprometido a hacer lo que sea necesario para evitar que Afganistán se convierta en una plataforma para grupos o individuos terroristas internacionales”, afirmó Khalilzad. Si necesitas ponerte al día con la situación de Afganistán, aquí repasamos algunos elementos importantes de ese conflicto bélico.• El proceso de enmienda del brexit podría cambiar el futuro del Reino Unido. Los legisladores británicos votarán hoy una serie de cambios en las propuestas de la primera ministra Theresa May para que el país se retire de la Unión Europea. Quienes no conocen la política británica podrían pensar que este es un proceso engorroso y antiguo y seguramente no entienden por qué los legisladores tardaron tanto en comenzar a discutir otras ideas. Aquí ofrecemos una guía [en inglés] para el proceso de enmienda y explicamos las razones que lo convierten en un momento crítico para el brexit.• El otro lado del #MeToo: disminuyen las oportunidades de orientación para las mujeres. Con el argumento de que temen transgredir límites ante las crecientes denuncias de acoso sexual, muchos gerentes de grandes empresas han declinado ser mentores de empleadas y colegas, lo que restringe las posibilidades de que ellas alcancen puestos más altos.“Si permitimos que esto pase, va a hacer que retrocedamos décadas”, afirmó Pat Milligan, quien dirige investigaciones sobre liderazgo. “Las mujeres deben ser respaldadas por los líderes y la mayoría de los líderes siguen siendo hombres”. El Foro Económico Mundial publicó recientemente un informe que concluye que se necesitarían 202 años para que se logre la igualdad de género empresarial.• La economía global no está en crisis, pero no supera sus vulnerabilidades [en inglés]. A pesar de que la economía mundial dio algunas señales de vitalidad durante gran parte del año pasado, los problemas que la han aquejado desde hace una década siguen allí; entre ellos, el envejecimiento de la mano de obra en muchas de las economías más importantes, un crecimiento muy bajo en la productividad y un exceso en la capacidad industrial y el ahorro global, además de una escasez de demanda en todo el mundo.• Pareciera que el plan de Facebook para integrar sus servicios de mensajería de WhatsApp, Instagram y Facebook Messenger busca afirmar el control en las extensas divisiones de la empresa, que se ha visto afectada por escándalos. Con la unión de la infraestructura de las aplicaciones, Mark Zuckerberg, director ejecutivo de la red social, quiere mantener a los miles de millones de usuarios inmersos en su ecosistema. La iniciativa ha provocado conflictos internos y genera dudas sobre la privacidad de los datos debido a la manera en que la información de los usuarios podría ser compartida entre las diversas plataformas.• ¿Qué pasa con Apple? La empresa revelará más sobre sus ganancias y pronósticos este martes, unas semanas después de reducir sus expectativas de ingresos por primera vez en dieciséis años. Eso también ofrecerá una visión del debilitamiento de la economía en China, que afecta tanto al mercado como a los centros de fabricación. Apple, al igual que muchas empresas, ha descubierto que ningún país puede igualar la combinación de habilidades, infraestructura y costos de China. En este trabajo [en inglés] presentamos un caso de estudio basado en el uso de un tornillo pequeño y sus consecuencias en la fabricación de computadoras.El fin de semana publicamos una columna de Farhad Manjoo en la que formula diversas razones para que los periodistas hagan un uso crítico y racionen su presencia en Twitter. “Twitter no solo arruina la imagen de los medios. También sesga nuestro periodismo”, dice Manjoo. “Todos los elementos de la interfaz de Twitter fomentan una mentalidad que se opone a la indagación periodística: favorece la forma por encima del contenido y los argumentos baratos por encima del debate razonado”.Ese artículo causó muchas reacciones entre nuestros lectores, como fue el caso de Raúl Venegas Porras, quien escribió en Facebook que el problema no son las redes sociales, sino “las personas con mucha afectación emocional y mental que se expresan en ellas”. En la misma red social, Jaas Adino Castillo elogió a Twitter como una plataforma de denuncia que “visibiliza y logra hacer diferentes tipos de control”.En Twitter, el periodista Pedro García Otero opinó que el artículo refleja un extremo y explica que esa red social obliga a los reporteros a volver a los principios básicos del oficio que sintetizó en la frase ""andar pilas y a saber diferenciar la paja del trigo”. En la misma plataforma, Adriana García expresó: “No, al periodismo lo están arruinando los malos periodistas”.Gracias por leernos. Mañana no te pierdas las mejores noticias científicas y una selección de artículos especiales del Times.También puedes compartir este boletín con tus amigos, familiares, seres queridos y no tan queridos. Se pueden registrar en este enlace.Advertisement"
" The high-end watch market is a strong investment vehicle for wealthy people.Details of a 1966 Rolex Submariner, reference 5513, featuring a gilt, meters-first dial; a “long 5” bezel; a so-called Bart Simpson crown logo; and plenty of patina. Listed for sale at $60,000.CreditCreditGreyson Korhonen/HodinkeeSupported byBy Alex WilliamsAs tattooed rockers, tech bros and Instagram influencers pile into the tweedy world of watch collecting, prices for sought-after classics from brands like Rolex, Omega and Patek Philippe are shooting up. In some cases, they have doubled in just a couple of years.These next-generation collectors see old timepieces not just as a subtly stylish way to dress up a T-shirt and jeans, but also as a hot new asset in their investment portfolios. In a market where stocks, bonds and real estate seem at an unsteady peak, do vintage watches present a Bitcoin-in-2017-like growth opportunity? Or are they in a Bitcoin-in-2017-like bubble? Time — elegantly monitored — will tell. Even though his investment in watches has doubled in value in just 18 months, Peter Goodwin, a private investor in Charlottesville, Va., who also collects watches, said he is concerned about frothiness in the vintage market.“It’s much like momentum investing in stocks,” he said. “People see the rise in Facebook shares, they see Mark Zuckerberg, and they want to ride it up. It is the same with the trendy watches we read about in the auctions — the Paul Newman Rolex, the Omega Speedmasters, some Submariners. You see them rising and you want to jump on.”“The question,” Mr. Goodwin said, “is when does it stop?”That’s a risk that newcomer watch geeks like Shahien Hendizadeh, a recent business school graduate in Los Angeles, are willing to take.“Buying a good vintage Rolex is just like purchasing stock in a company like Nestlé or Google,” Mr. Hendizadeh, 25, said. “It is the quintessential blue chip.”After taking a face-plant on a long-shot $2,000 investment in American Apparel stock, just months before the company declared bankruptcy, he bought a 1982 Rolex Submariner for $13,000. It has appreciated perhaps $10,000 in two years, he said.And in the event of an economic downturn, fine watches may turn out to represent a safe-haven asset, like metals or gems, for investors looking to diversify their portfolios. Or they may just be another of-the-moment asset that 1 percenters, flush with cash, have inflated to unsustainable proportions. Watch collectors hide in plain sight. John Mayer’s watch collection is nearly as famous as his guitar work. His bank vault contains a vast array of collectibles, including sapphire-encrusted gold Rolexes and Luftwaffe watches from World War II, that he has said is valued in the “tens of millions.”Silicon Valley heavyweights like Kevin Rose, the Digg founder, and Matt Jacobson, Facebook’s employee No. 8, have museum-worthy Rolexes and Patek Philippes, helping to establish a head-turning timepiece as a tech-world style flourish to rival the hoodie.Ellen DeGeneres wore a holy-grail Paul Newman-model Rolex Daytona from the 1960s, now worth perhaps $250,000, while bantering with Jerry Seinfeld in an episode of “Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee” last year. (Adam Levine and Ed Sheeran have been spotted wearing Paul Newmans as well. One also made a cameo on the wrist of Pierre Png’s character in “Crazy Rich Asians.”)In professional sports, high-end timepieces have long seemed as indispensable as a shoe contract for stars with seven- and eight-figure incomes. Top athletes including Rafael Nadal, Dwyane Wade and LeBron James have served as celebrity ambassadors for brands like Richard Mille, Hublot and Audemars Piguet. Star players who have been traded have been known to trade a Rolex to a player on their new team to secure their old jersey number. And in recent years, several have morphed into certifiable watch snobs. Howie Kendrick of the Washington Nationals, for example, counts understated heirlooms, like a 1959 LeCoultre Deep Sea Alarm and a 1960s Breitling Superocean, as key elements of his off-field uniform.If you’re still 1 percent-ish but would prefer to dabble, there’s good news. The Watch Fund, run by Dominic Khoo, a shareholder and watch specialist with the auction company Antiquorum, offers people a chance to invest in rare and limited-edition watches at prices that can be 50 percent or more below retail. Those who have bought in have seen at least double-digit returns since the fund’s inception six years ago, Mr. Khoo said.Star power and funds like Mr. Khoo’s add credence to the idea that fine watches are a soybean or a copper, another investable commodity. But does that make them a good investment?What even makes a watch valuable? Consider the bezel insert from a 1957 Rolex Submariner. A bezel insert is the featherweight aluminum disk with numbers on it that surrounds the dial of a diver’s watch.On Submariners made in the third quarter of 1957, the bezel insert was made with an unusual red triangle at 12 o’clock and slightly different typography on the numerals. Because it is rare, that insert is so sought after by collectors that it can fetch more than $30,000 these days, said Eric Wind, a dealer of fine vintage watches in Florida, up from maybe $10,000 just a few years ago.None of this necessarily makes sense. It’s not like a vintage watch is better than a new one. In fact, it’s worse in almost every way.A new Rolex Submariner, for example, is a modern update of a decades-old classic that seems to be every budding watch geek’s first serious timepiece. The new Sub is a marvel of mechanical engineering, with a high-tech ceramic bezel that is virtually guaranteed not to fade, a solid-steel bracelet as rugged as a tank tread, and a crystal made of sapphire that is all but scratch-proof. It’s a watch that feels indestructible enough for a pleasure dive in the Mariana Trench.No one would ever say that about its predecessor, those midcentury Submariners made famous by Sean Connery’s James Bond, which are shooting up in value despite the fact that they feature an acrylic (that is, plastic) crystal prone to scratches and cracks, a hollow-steel bracelet that eventually might stretch like an accordion, and a painted dial that could fade from the original black to an espresso brown (known to collectors as a “tropical” dial).Which is, naturally, why old watches are considered cool: They have patina, provenance, soul. And for a generation of men (and yes, vintage watches seem to be an obsession largely for men, with apologies to Ellen) who value the analog-chic of antique mechanical watches, just like vinyl records and selvage jeans, that is key.“Vintage watches should show off their age,” said Nelson Murray, a 31-year-old photographer and budding collector in San Francisco. Vintage sport watches, like his Rolex GMT-Master, a classic pilot’s watch from 1980, “evoke a sense of adventure and a kind of dare to add more dings and scratches to them as evidence of a life lived.”Prices for some Rolex GMT-Master models — in the proper condition, with original parts — have spiked to perhaps $16,000, up from $8,000 just two or three years ago, said Paul Altieri of Bob’s Watches, a prominent retailer in Newport Beach, Calif. (It routinely shows off sumptuous wrist shots of old classics for its Instagram followers.)A few years ago, Matt Hranek, a watch-loving photographer who recently founded a men’s style magazine called Wm Brown, flipped a 1960s Omega Speedmaster (the same model worn by the astronaut Ed White on the first American spacewalk) for five times what he paid for it, he said. That score helped him persuade his wife that a portfolio of vintage watches could serve as an alternate 401(k) for the family.“I convinced her — I think — that it was much more practical to invest regularly in watches that I know about rather than the stock market that I know absolutely nothing about,” Mr. Hranek, 51, said.Benjamin Clymer, the founder of the watch site Hodinkee, which has evolved from a one-man watch blog to a market-moving editorial and e-commerce site selling new and vintage watches, has been practicing a form of horological arbitrage with his collection for years.In 2012, for example, he bought a Patek Philippe Nautilus, a triumph of 1970s mod design that conjures images of Concorde flights and fondue parties, for $18,000. That watch is worth at least $75,000 today, Mr. Clymer, 36, said. That’s not his only home run as a watch investor.“I have a distinct memory of a friend who is now one of the great vintage dealers in the world calling me crazy for spending $30,000 for an early 1950s Omega Speedmaster,” he said. “The same watch today would be well north of $100,000.”With wrist shots flourishing on Instagram and watch sites like Hodinkee, Worn & Wound and Monochrome spreading arcane watch knowledge to the masses, collector demand is spreading beyond behemoth brands like Rolex and Omega to lesser-known makers like Universal Genève. One particularly coveted version of that venerable Swiss maker’s Compax chronograph famously graced the wrist of Nina Rindt, the fashionable wife of the 1970s Formula One racer Jochen Rindt. It began trading as high as $45,000 recently, up from maybe $2,800 in 2011, although the market has cooled of late, Mr. Wind said; the same model might trade for $20,000 to $30,000, he added. But no watch has exploded in value like the Paul Newman Daytona. It is an auto racer’s chronograph that once was considered something of an afterthought in the watch world. Joanne Woodward accidentally made it iconic when she bought one for Mr. Newman, her gear-head husband, in the late 1960s for about $250.Whether she noticed it or not, the specific model she selected for Mr. Newman, who could often be found circling the track when he was not making movies, was rare, featuring distinctive Art Deco-inflected numerals on its three sub-dials denoting seconds, minutes and hours. This only appeared on perhaps one in 20 Daytonas from the late 1960s and early 1970s.Over the years, Mr. Newman’s stature as a style icon grew, and so did the mythology — and value — of the Rolex he flashed on magazine covers. In a 2014 post, Hodinkee scoured old auction catalogs featuring Paul Newman sales and found estimates as low as $9,257 in 1992, and as low (yes) as $66,000 in 2008.Those were the days. After Paul Newman’s own Paul Newman attracted worldwide headlines by selling at auction for $17.8 million after a mere 12 minutes of bidding in 2017, every Paul Newman suddenly seems to be trading like a Picasso. A coveted version known as an Oyster Mk 1 “panda” went for more than $750,000 at a Phillips auction in Geneva this past spring, a figure that shocked Mr. Clymer, who once owned that very watch. “The Oysters are something really special, and go well beyond ticking the box for a rich guy to prove he’s cool,” Mr. Clymer said. “I bought this watch in the twos, sold it in the threes, and I thought I was the smartest man in the room. How could a steel Daytona break $400,000?”Not every old watch has value. Anyone who scoops up a cheap boxful of half-working Bulovas from the 1950s at a flea market is likely to end up with a cheap boxful of half-working Bulovas from the 1950s. Vintage watch collecting can prove a minefield for newbie collectors. Even with blue-chip models, seemingly imperceptible differences can add or detract thousands of dollars in value. A Rolex Submariner from the 1960s with an original bezel insert featuring a so-called long 5 is worth thousands more than one with a replacement insert with a shorter, more contemporary 5. Buyers need to figure out if a watch has been polished over the years — actually considered a bad thing, since polishing can wear down the crisp edges of its case, Mr. Wind said. And they need to watch out for unscrupulous dealers peddling so-called Frankenwatches, which contain non-original parts that can torpedo the value. Besides, watch collecting can be similar to art collecting in that dealers tend to reserve the most coveted pieces for insiders and heavyweight collectors, rarely making them available to the general public. And then there are the fickle market tastes that any sort of collector must try to anticipate. Right now, the arrow is pointing up on best-of-breed sport watches with steel bracelets, like the Nautilus, the Submariner and GMT, the early Speedmasters, the Audemars Piguet Royal Oak and certain vintage Tudors and Heuers, Mr. Clymer said. There’s no telling how the demand for five- and six-figure timepieces will hold up should, say, a credit implosion in China, or a splintering of the eurozone, produce a sequel to the 2008 financial crisis, or should Democratic Socialists sweep to power in Washington on promises of a 70 percent tax rate on the target demographic for museum-worthy watches. Already, some sure things, like certain Daytonas, are looking like slightly less than a sure thing. “The market for Daytona just got a little silly for awhile,” Mr. Clymer said. “We saw references worth $20,000, $25,000 in 2011 to 2015 all of a sudden worth $50,000, then all of a sudden worth $80,000. And now those same references are worth $65,000. That’s still significantly higher than they were, but they’ve come down from the stratosphere.”During the bear market of 2008 to 2009, too, prices for some high-flying vintage models, including Paul Newmans, dipped by 30 to 40 percent, said Matthew Bain, a dealer of fine watches in Miami Beach. But, like stocks, they bounced back to new highs. The rebound may seem intoxicating. But people who think of their watch collection as an alternative to an E-Trade account may be in for a rude surprise when they discover that watches often come with sizable dealer fees, not to mention substantial outlays for insurance, secure storage and other hidden costs, Mr. Khoo said. “Investors are not collectors, and collectors are not investors,” Mr. Khoo said. His Watch Fund has a database of “more than 9,000 watch collectors worldwide,” he said, and “I have never met someone who bought hundreds of watches that he liked, and sold 100 percent of them for a net absolute gain.”In other words, newcomers to the watch world may want to heed the warning attached to brokerage advertisements on television: Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Or, they may just want to buy whatever looks cool and leave it at that. Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. Want this by email? Sign up here.American and Chinese officials have reportedly begun to hash out documents that could form the basis of a trade deal, but there are growing concerns that leaders of both nations are softening on key demands. More on the progress from Bloomberg, citing an unidentified source:• Several memorandums of understanding “would cover areas including agriculture, non-tariff barriers, services, technology transfer and intellectual property, said the person.”• “The enforcement mechanism remains unclear, but would likely be a threat that tariffs would be reimposed if conditions aren’t met, the person said.”• “No breakthrough is expected during this week’s talks,” though an extension to a March 1 deadline is still a possibility.But there’s a new fear surrounding the deal. According to Lingling Wei and Bob Davis of the WSJ, there are “growing concerns on the home front” in both America and China that their leaders — and President Trump in particular — are “going to cave in to the other side”:• Some officials reportedly believe Mr. Trump is “tiring of the trade dispute and is poised to cut a deal that won’t lead to fundamental changes by China.”• “American Enterprise Institute China scholar Derek Scissors said that U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, a China hawk, holds significant leverage over Mr. Trump to keep to a hard line — including, potentially, the threat of resigning if the deal falls short.”More trade news: Mr. Trump reportedly continues to consider E.U. car tariffs — levies that Volkswagen says could cost it billions of euros per year. And is the clothes maker American Giant, which makes all its products in the U.S., a model for Mr. Trump’s ambitions?Hedge funds and investment banks think they’ve found a big new moneymaker, according to Matt Goldstein and Jim Tankersley of the NYT: so-called opportunity funds, part of President Trump’s tax package to steer money to poor areas by offering large tax breaks.• “More than 80 of the funds have sprung up since January 2018, even though the Trump administration has not finalized regulations governing them.”• The pitch to potential investors: outsize returns while fighting poverty.• The provision that created opportunity funds “lowers capital gains taxes — potentially dramatically — for investors who finance projects in about 8,700 so-called opportunity zones spread across the 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.”• The financial benefit? “An investor who keeps money in such a fund for 10 years is able to exclude 15 percent of the original capital gain from taxation. And — potentially much more lucratively — the investor would not owe taxes on any gains that accrued if the investment increased in value in that time.”• “Skeptics worry that the funds will mostly target real estate and other projects that probably would have attracted investment even without the tax break, and may not deliver the returns being dangled.”The British prime minister was in Brussels yesterday to press for changes that could save her Brexit deal. She may finally be making some headway, though she still needs to convince lawmakers of any changes to her plan.She made her case to the E.U. In discussions with the European Commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, she pressed for “legally binding changes” to her existing deal that she hopes will make it palatable to British lawmakers. Britain’s attorney general, Geoffrey Cox, and Brexit secretary, Steve Barclay, are expected to propose wordings for those legal tweaks today.Some progress may have been made. “A Brexit agreement is already being hammered out in Brussels, according to Spain’s foreign minister, as the bloc seeks reassuring language that can convince British members of Parliament to back the deal,” Bloomberg explains.But the E.U. may demand that any changes are first approved in Britain. The E.U. “doesn’t want to call leaders for a summit to sign off on changes that are then rejected by the U.K. Parliament,” Bloomberg reports, adding that “once there’s an agreement, it should be tested in Parliament, and only after that will leaders be asked to sign off on it at a summit.” And it is far from clear that lawmakers would approve.More Brexit news: Nine more Conservative party lawmakers have reportedly said that they could resign from the party in the event of a no-deal Brexit. The credit agency Fitch may downgrade Britain’s double-A rating over concerns about Brexit. The White House has spent the last year trying to convince Europe that the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei is a national security threat and shouldn’t be given any role in developing new wireless networks. So far, that plan doesn’t appear to be working.British officials don’t seem to agree with the White House. “Ciaran Martin, who leads Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, expressed confidence at a conference in Brussels that any security risks Huawei posed could be managed,” Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.Nor do those in Germany. The news follows a WSJ report yesterday that said “the German government is leaning toward letting Huawei Technologies Co. participate in building the nation’s high-speed internet infrastructure.”“If Britain does not ban Huawei, it would be a defeat for the White House,” Mr. Satariano writes. “Because Britain belongs to the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance with the United States, whatever it decides on Huawei is likely to affect how other countries treat the company.”The German lender suffered one of its biggest-ever trading losses from a decade-long wager on a municipal-bond investment that spiraled out of control, the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources.• The bank bought $7.8 billion worth of municipal bonds in 2007, later covered with insurance purchased from Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway.• The WSJ says Deutsche Bank “resisted for years reducing the value of those bonds and related derivatives on its books to a level that markets suggested they were worth,” and dismissed concerns from auditors.• “Internally, the bank acknowledged losses on the trade only incrementally. After it finally liquidated the position nine years after buying the bonds, bank executives debated whether to restate past financial results, but never did so.”• Deutsche Bank finally liquidated the position in the summer of 2016, after its C.E.O. at the time, John Cryan, demanded the trade be wound down.• “The prolonged struggle over how to handle the investment sheds light on cultural and financial challenges inside one of Europe’s biggest banks that have hampered its ability to compete with stronger U.S. rivals.”More Deutsche Bank news: Executives were reportedly so worried about the Trump Organization defaulting on $340 million in loans during the Trump presidency that they discussed extending repayment dates until 2025.The Swiss bank was hit by one of France’s biggest-ever financial penalties yesterday for helping wealthy French clients hide money from the authorities.The judgment was seven years in the making. French authorities began investigating after whistle-blowers tipped them off. According to the NYT, prosecutors said that UBS bankers in France eager for big bonuses “had alerted their counterparts in Switzerland to potential ‘big potatoes’ ” — French citizens with assets of at least €500,000, or about $560,000.Bankers used “James Bond” methods to hide their work. They “followed a UBS ‘security governance manual’ that included instructions for using encrypted computers, using business cards without the bank’s logo and switching hotels frequently,” according to the NYT.UBS will appeal. The firm said that the case was “based on the unfounded allegations of former employees,” and its C.E.O. derided the verdict as “superficial” and “astounding.”Major companies including Nestlé and Epic Games said yesterday that they had stopped buying ads on Google’s video platform. The reason, the NYT reports: Pedophiles were swarming the comment sections of children’s videos.The companies acted after a user posted a video that pointed out that innocent videos of youngsters were being overrun with suggestive comments aimed at the children.The video’s creator, Matt Watson, accused YouTube of “facilitating the sexual exploitation” of children. He added that the site’s recommendation system guided predators to other videos featuring minors.A Google spokeswoman said the company had taken action by deleting accounts and offensive comments. “Any content — including comments — that endangers minors is abhorrent and we have clear policies prohibiting this on YouTube,” she said.At this point, the blood-testing company is over. But Nick Bilton of Vanity Fair writes that in its final months, Theranos’s founder, Elizabeth Holmes, tried to abandon a high-spending lifestyle and attempted to convince employees that everything was O.K.:• “Holmes had a hard time weaning herself off certain luxuries. She still had her own personal security detail, drivers, personal assistants and a personal publicist who was on retainer for $25,000 a month.”• “By late 2017, however, Holmes had begun to slightly rein in the spending.” She agreed to give up her private-jet travel, and moved the company’s premises from Palo Alto to Newark, to premises that former employees called “crummy.”• “Yet through all of this, former employees of the company have told me, Holmes had a bizarre way of acting like nothing was wrong. Even more peculiarly, she appeared happy. ‘The company is falling apart, there are countless indictments piling up, employees are leaving in droves, and Elizabeth is just weirdly chipper,’ a former senior executive told me.”Those in the upper echelon are hoarding money and privilege to a degree not seen in decades. But that doesn’t make them happy at work, Charles Duhigg writes in the NYT:• “A surprising portion of Americans are professionally miserable right now. In the mid-1980s, roughly 61 percent of workers told pollsters they were satisfied with their jobs. Since then, that number has declined substantially, hovering around half, according to data collected by the Conference Board, a nonprofit research organization.”• “Even among professionals given to lofty self-images, like those in medicine and law, other studies have noted a rise in discontent.”• “Why? Based on my own conversations with classmates and the research I began reviewing, the answer comes down to oppressive hours, political infighting, increased competition sparked by globalization, an ‘always-on culture’ bred by the internet — but also something that’s hard for these professionals to put their finger on, an underlying sense that their work isn’t worth the grueling effort they’re putting into it.”Dane Butswinkas is stepping down as Tesla’s general counsel, only two months after joining the carmaker from the law firm Williams & Connolly.Keith Rabois, the veteran investor, is leaving Khosla Ventures for Founders Fund, the venture capital firm run by his longtime friend Peter Thiel.Robin Phillips, a co-head of HSBC’s global banking division, will reportedly step down this summer.Serena Williams joined the board of Poshmark, an online retailer.Deals• Lyft plans to begin its I.P.O. roadshow on March 18, paving the way to begin trading publicly on the Nasdaq stock market by early April. (NYT)• The activist hedge fund Starboard Value nominated five directors to Bristol-Myers Squibb’s board, a potential attempt to derail the drugmaker’s acquisition of Celgene. (Bloomberg)• With Sainsbury and other major British retailers out as buyers for Walmart’s Asda unit, will a private equity firm step in? (Bloomberg)• The C.E.O. of Kraft Heinz says that food company valuations have become “more attractive” recently, suggesting he may try to strike deals. (FT)Politics and policy• The Justice Department reportedly could announce that Robert Mueller has completed his Russia investigation as soon as next week. (CNN)• Coal companies hired Bill Wehrum’s law firm to fight Obama-era environmental rules — then Mr. Wehrum joined President Trump’s Environmental Protection Agency. (Politico)• House Democrats plan to introduce a bill blocking President Trump’s emergency declaration for a border wall by tomorrow. (Politico)• A disinformation campaign aimed at Democratic presidential candidates like Senators Kamala Harris and Bernie Sanders is underway. Foreign state actors appear to be involved. (Politico)Tech• Apple is reportedly working on a way for developers to create one app that works on iPhones, iPads and Macs. (Bloomberg)• Samsung thinks it has seen the future of smartphones — and it’s a folding device that will cost almost $2,000. (NYT)• Digital ad spending in the U.S. is expected to surpass nondigital this year. (Axios)• Mark Zuckerberg says that an ad-free Facebook isn’t quite as straightforward as it sounds. (Recode)Best of the rest• Court documents revealed that the health care joint venture of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase plans to redesign health insurance, among other things. (WSJ)• The Fed paused interest rate rises because “the global economic outlook became less certain and financial markets failed to appreciate the Fed’s willingness to shift if the economy weakened.” (NYT)• The Justice Department and S.E.C. are investigating Johnson & Johnson over concerns about possible asbestos contamination of its popular baby powder. (NYT)• The S.E.C. is now investigating Danske Bank over its money-laundering scandal. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" OnlyFans has put X-rated entertainment in the hands of its entertainers. Call it the paywall of porn.Dannii Harwood CreditCreditMolly Matalon for The New York TimesSupported byBy Jacob BernsteinEvery day, hundreds of men pay Dannii Harwood to enact their sexual fantasies and boost their self-esteem. Sometimes her clothes come off. Sometimes she dresses up as a nurse or a dominatrix. If a guy is a regular customer, she likely knows his birthday, the names of his children and his pets — even when to call after a surgical procedure.He may pay her to help him achieve an orgasm, though she is not a prostitute. He may purchase erotic videos from her, though she is not a porn star.Ms. Harwood is one of the top earners on OnlyFans, where subscribers — mostly male; straight, gay and beyond — pay models and social media influencers a fee, generally $5 to $20 a month, to view a feed of imagery too racy for Instagram. With that access, subscribers can also direct message and “tip” to get pictures or videos created on demand, according to their sexual tastes.Models who join the site often presume that their subscribers will increase in number if they post more often and make the content more explicit. The “more often” part is true. The “more explicit” part is not.At a time when anyone with a smartphone or small studio can become his or her own pornographer, and content is often free, the hottest site in the adult entertainment industry is dominated by providers who show fewer sex acts and charge increasing fees depending on how creative the requests get. That’s the first paradox at the center of the OnlyFans phenomenon.The most popular OnlyFans personality is Jem Wolfie, of Perth, Australia.She can’t help but laugh when people call her a “fitness model.” As she noted in an interview, “70 percent of my fans are men.” So the bulk of them aren’t looking for exercise tips, although she may provide them, for an added fee (along with healthy recipes — she used to be a chef).According to OnlyFans, she has 10,000 subscribers who pay $10 a month for access to a feed in which she shows off her Kardashianesque proportions, squatting in really tight leggings and squeezing her breasts together, strategically covering her nipples. “I’m a thick girl,” she said matter-of-factly.It doesn’t go much further than that.“Basically, OnlyFans is online go-go dancing,” said Matthew Camp, a 34-year-old model on the men’s side who broke into the business a decade ago writhing on platforms around downtown Manhattan for the party promoter Susanne Bartsch.If the four main quadrants of the gay approval matrix were daddy, twink, bear and boy next door, he seemed to sit smack in the center, not falling neatly into any of those categories but appealing to the potential audiences for each.With a G-string and a strobe light, he could make as much as $1,000 on a good night. Porn studios like Lucas Entertainment began calling.Mr. Camp was intrigued. “Having sex for money is appealing,” he said. But $1,000 seemed low for something that would sit on the internet and brand him for life as a porn star.So he turned them down and instead used a PG-13 feed on Instagram to build a following of more than half a million. About a year ago, as the club scene continued its slow death, he moved to Hudson, N.Y., and signed up for OnlyFans.Weeks often went by without him posting a single picture or video. He didn’t show a full penetrative sex clip for the first nine months, yet he still regularly took home more than $10,000 a month.“Tumblr was filled with the most extreme sexual experiences you could see,” he said. “And I think a lot of people were turned off by that. It’s not what they’re looking for. They want more intimate experiences. They want a boyfriend experience. They want to fantasize about someone that they want to have sex with and not feel disgusted by it.”From the late 1990s to the early 2000s, dreamers in the porn industry, centered in the San Fernando Valley of California, openly described their multi-million-dollar futures in the business. There was actually a history of this happening, at least for a small number of models signed to lucrative long-term contracts with studios like Vivid and Wicked.They could make north of $5,000 a scene and shoot a couple of those each week, according to Brian Gross, a well-known industry publicist. That income could be supplemented with five-figure sums doing nightclub appearances around the country on the weekends, he said.Jenna Jameson — the Julia Roberts of straight porn — even parlayed her notoriety into a memoir released by HarperCollins, “How to Make Love Like a Porn Star: A Cautionary Tale,” which was a New York Times best seller. The title turned out to be eerily prescient. As its publisher, Judith Regan, pointed out: “Porn went the way of all media.” It turns out, everyone could do it. Except that because porn was an industry of people already living on the margins of society, the effects for the performers were in many ways worse.The primary culprits were so-called tube sites: YouTube-like platforms that aggregated stolen pornographic content, disseminated it for free and sucked up revenue from banner and video ads. Since porn studios did not have the capital or political connections to sue their most threatening adversaries out of business (as the record industry did), rates for scene work dropped. Fewer scenes were shot overall. Eventually, the studios began selling themselves to the tube sites at fire-sale prices.It was as if the entire music business had been subsumed by Napster.By 2015, a handful of companies were able to exert monopolistic control over the industry. MindGeek is the biggest player of all. The crown jewel of its empire is Pornhub (perhaps the most popular tube site in the world), which is supplied with content from numerous in-house production companies of the straight (Brazzers.com, Reality Kings) and gay varieties (SeanCody, Men.com).MindGeek knows all about porn habits by doing comprehensive data analysis. It has shown less of an affinity for the product or the people who appear in it.The MindGeek website makes no reference to the fact that the overwhelming majority of its customers are consumers of hard-core pornography. The technocrats who built the company got rich. Many of the performers who helped enable their success became prostitutes, offering their services on websites like RentMen.com and The Erotic Review when scene work ceased to be a viable way to make a living. It’s a fitting but unfortunate parable in an era of rampant economic inequality.“If you have a known name, it’s much easier to market your services,” said Dirk Caber, a porn star who has filmed close to 40 scenes for MindGeek’s most popular gay site, Men.com, since 2013. Most of his income comes from his work as an escort, because this scene work pays so little.“The whole industry did a 180,” Mr. Gross said. “When I started, there were actually websites that would out famous porn stars if they escorted, because it was shocking, for lack of a better word. Now, all talent is looked at as if they are escorts, and those who aren’t have to come out and say so.”One alternative to escorting is webcamming. In England, there are even TV stations, like Playboy and Babestation, on which models talk live with thousands of customers and earn several hundred dollars a day. That’s what Ms. Harwood did before OnlyFans came along.She grew up in Wales, with a mother who stocked supermarket shelves and a father who was a factory worker. It was a “typical working-class” household, she said recently, while on a vacation in New York that included a trip to the 9/11 memorial and the taking of many hotel room selfies. As a little girl, Ms. Harwood was a relentless attention seeker, the sort who appeared in school plays, competed in beauty pageants and studied dance. She also had reservoirs of empathy that would serve her well later in life.She could spot pain in others and find ways to make them feel better. She also was capable of identifying her limitations and finding ways to chart new paths for herself. “I was raised well,” she said. She studied dance at Laine Theatre Arts, a prestigious drama and dance college near London. Then, “I went to audition after audition,” she said. “Eventually, I realized I wasn’t good enough. And it was quite hard to accept at first.”Around 2005, Ms. Harwood posed topless on Page 3 of The Daily Sport, a second-tier British newspaper that she said “was popular with day laborers and construction workers.”This apparently included the guys her father worked with. One morning, he went into work and saw the picture of his daughter plastered to his locker. On her face, his colleagues had drawn his mustache and glasses. That’s how he found out she was modeling nude. That’s why he warned her about being disowned.Ms. Harwood felt terrible. Although she likes taking off her clothes for other people, she seems driven less by the desire to transgress than the desire to please. If she were reincarnated as a Disney character, she’d be Jessica Rabbit, not Miss Piggy. But it wasn’t like her father had the money to support her. His warning was sort of an empty threat. So she kept going, with appearances in Playboy and British so-called laddie magazines. In 2011, Ms. Harwood worked for a soft-core site called GlamGirls and became friendly with its owner, Tim Stokely, an earnest technocrat who looks like Mark Zuckerberg by way of Savile Row. Soon after, Mr. Stokely founded a site called Customs4U, which Ms. Harwood said, lightheartedly, may have been her idea and was like OnlyFans in beta. The pitch was to offer horny guys the ability to become their own directors, ordering specially made videos from their favorite models.It sputtered along while Instagram — which is free and doesn’t allow full nudity — took off. Then Mr. Stokely had his light bulb moment: Why not find a way for influencers to directly monetize their content. The platform — OnlyFans — would be similar to Instagram or Twitter except fans would have to pay a monthly subscription to view influencers’ content and interact with them.It would therefore be a natural bolt-on to the influencer’s existing social media. A free feed on Instagram or Twitter could promote and drive traffic to the subscription-only feed on OnlyFans.Eighty percent of the fees collected for each feed would go to the provider. Twenty percent would go to OnlyFans (although after merchant and processing fees, Mr. Stokely says its take is around 12 percent). This is roughly the same arrangement Uber has with its drivers, except that OnlyFans didn’t push performers toward poverty by dictating the prices they could charge.When OnlyFans started, in 2016, Ms. Harwood was one of just 10 models who sought subscribers. She didn’t think much would come of it initially. Her earnings for the first month were $257. Then, the site added features enabling models to create custom content. Ms. Harwood got inventive.She introduced themed days like Mistress Mondays and Dare Dannii Tuesdays, when men bid to watch her drive around town in her underwear and order a pizza to her home, whereupon she would answer the door naked. She also chatted with fans daily, learning their habits, their sexual predilections and their insecurities.“You can get porn for free,” she said. “Guys don’t want to pay for that. They want the opportunity to get to know somebody they’ve seen in a magazine or on social media. I’m like their online girlfriend.”Ms. Harwood took out her phone and showed evidence of her theory.She brought home $29,420.47 in August, $34,303.24 in September, $52,693.29 in October and $52,760.49 in November. Although OnlyFans has brilliantly capitalized off the life’s work of exhibitionists, it is run by people whose most apparent trait is opacity.That’s the second paradox at the center of its existence. There is no website for Fenix International Limited, which is the parent company of OnlyFans. It does have a publicist, Daniel Blythe, who largely helps the men behind it avoid interviews.When I first contacted Mr. Blythe, in November, informing him of my intention to write about OnlyFans, he was affable as could be for a man with no intention of disclosing the names of his clients, much less submitting them to an interview.When I did discover Mr. Stokely’s name and portions of his back story, with a little help from someone on Reddit, Mr. Blythe offered the warmest of congratulations. “Refreshing to know that investigative journalism isn’t dead,” he said.Still, the best he could offer were written responses to questions for Mr. Stokely, the company’s chief executive. The answers were maddeningly vague, but Mr. Stokely did say that he works at Fenix with his father, Guy Stokely, who, before becoming its chairman, was an investment banker with Barclays, the storied British bank. Mr. Stokely also confirmed that one of Fenix’s directors is Leo Radvinsky, a 2003 Northwestern University graduate who went on to start MyFreeCams (one of the industry’s largest chat sites) and who has been a defendant in three lawsuits related to phishing attempts and patent infringement. (Mr. Blythe said he could not comment on the status of those lawsuits because they “do not pertain to OnlyFans.”)Mr. Stokely is eager to take OnlyFans out of the pornography niche and make it a platform for all sorts of influencers and audiences. One hurdle is that there is no iPhone app. The platform as it exists now likely runs afoul of Apple’s restrictions on “overtly sexual or pornographic material.” And even if Apple did allow an OnlyFans app, the fees — 30 percent — would certainly be a problem, Mr. Stokely said. He would have to pass along those expenses to performers. Technical problems on OnlyFans also threaten its longevity and help explain why synonymous sites, such as JustFor.Fans, have managed to siphon off considerable numbers of performers and revenue.Still, Chanel Santini, a 21-year-old performer who has been with OnlyFans for more than a year and earns at least $8,000 a month in subscription revenue, can’t muster serious complaints. Not when she experienced the alternative. She grew up in Albuquerque with a single mother who was a hairdresser. Ms. Santini came out as transgender when she was a teenager. That got her thrown out of the house. She never finished high school. In 2015, Ms. Santini moved to Las Vegas and took a job as a clerk at Hollister, the clothing chain. Even in a city with a fairly low cost of living, it wasn’t enough. So she started doing porn, filming scenes that paid as little as $400, which then led to escorting. She worked for a madam who stole her money, she said, and threatened her with violence. With popular feeds on Instagram and Twitter, Ms. Santini’s name got bigger. OnlyFans started and she signed up. A couple of weeks ago, she burst into tears over the phone while recalling her first pornographic shoot. There, a director had told her that the only way to make a living in porn was to also be a prostitute.“He said that straight to my face,” she said. “Now, I just want to run into him again, so I can say, ‘Well, here I am. I’m pulling in tens of thousands of dollars every month just posting content online. I don’t have to escort anymore. I don’t have to do that. Guess you were wrong!’”Jacob Bernstein is a reporter for the Styles desk. In addition to writing profiles of fashion designers, artists and celebrities, he has focused much of his attention on L.G.B.T. issues, philanthropy and the world of furniture design.  @bernsteinjacob Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Daisuke WakabayashiEven by the nightmarish standards of the empire she oversees, Susan Wojcicki, the chief executive officer of YouTube, has had a dreadful start to 2019. During a single week in February, BuzzFeed reported that her company was running advertisements alongside anti-vaccine content; there was a nationwide panic over the platform abetting child suicide; and a viral video showed how pedophiles were flourishing on the site.And then there was the bestiality.Thumbnail images implying human-animal sex were discovered next to children’s videos, and after an uproar, Ms. Wojcicki was obliged to call a staff meeting to address it. The topic, she allowed during a recent interview, was one “I never thought I would be handling.”Ms. Wojcicki, 50, was sitting in a conference room at YouTube headquarters in suburban San Bruno, Calif., wearing jeans, a cardigan and an expression of pure stoicism. In an industry that celebrates eccentricity, Ms. Wojcicki presents as exceedingly normal, bordering on boring, even as elements of her digital realm burst into the real world in forms that are increasingly grotesque and sometimes dangerous.Several months earlier, not far from where we sat, Ms. Wojcicki had spent 40 minutes hiding from an active shooter: a YouTube user furious about new ad standards, who shot three employees before taking her own life. Ms. Wojcicki said she knew that her policy changes could “upset some people,” but “seeing that someone could be so angry that they would come here is really hard.”Her tenure as C.E.O. wasn’t supposed to be dominated by pedophilia and attempted mass murder. When she got the job, in 2014, Ms. Wojcicki was hailed straightforwardly as the most powerful woman in advertising, someone who’d helped turn on the cash spigots in her time at Google and would presumably repeat the trick at YouTube. In the five years since, Ms. Wojcicki has introduced new forms of ads as well as subscription offerings for music, original content and the cord-cutting service YouTube TV. But somewhere along the line, her job became less about growth and more about toxic containment.Political figures and tech luminaries alike are castigating YouTube for not doing enough to rein in the crooks, crackpots, racists, Russian agents and charlatans who call the platform home. New horrors are ceaseless — last month, just before a terrorist in New Zealand massacred 50 people, he urged people to subscribe to a popular YouTuber — and reinforce the view that the platform is corroding society.Remarkably, for a person who oversees a website with more daily visitors than Facebook, Ms. Wojcicki has managed to keep a low profile and avoid much of the blame. Last year, when other social media executives were summoned to Congress for a scolding, she was not invited. She stayed home and campaigned against a new European Union law that could hold services like YouTube liable if their users upload copyrighted content.While Mark Zuckerberg, Sheryl Sandberg, Jack Dorsey and others have gotten their share of public scrutiny, Ms. Wojcicki largely has not. I wanted to get a better sense of what she was like as a C.E.O., how she was trying to tame YouTube’s hydra of issues and whether there was any sense of urgency within YouTube. And so over the last several months, I spoke to more than a dozen current and former YouTube and Google employees and interviewed Ms. Wojcicki three times.What I found was both reassuring and alarming. At the top of the world’s largest and most volatile video platform is a calm, levelheaded person. But her deliberate style may be at odds with the pace and scale of horrors and just plain stupidity that relentlessly arises on YouTube.On April 2, Bloomberg News published an article that painted a damning portrait of her and other YouTube brass — so focused on maximizing usage statistics that they looked the other way when employees raised concerns about the company’s recommendation system. Ms. Wojcicki seemed taken aback. In an April 7 interview, she said YouTube has not ignored its problem with hosting extreme and conspiracy-minded content. She said it was a large and complex issue and the company was starting to make a dent. She wasn’t defensive, but defiant and — most surprising for someone usually so measured — a little angry.“It’s not like there is one lever we can pull and say, ‘Hey, let’s make all these changes,’ and everything would be solved,” Ms. Wojcicki said. “That’s not how it works.”At one policy review meeting I observed in San Bruno, her methodical approach was on full display. In a narrow conference room lined with whiteboards and TV screens, she sat quietly with a dozen YouTube employees, watching a video called “Condom Challenge,” in which water-filled prophylactics fell onto people’s heads in extreme slow motion. Rather than bursting, the condoms inverted and engulfed their faces like a fishbowl. Ms. Wojcicki pondered whether the clip, which has nearly 15 million views, was merely juvenile or crossed the line to life-threatening. Like so much on YouTube, such “challenges” — when creators perform stunts and call out a friend to do the same — often begin as harmless memes, but morph into something more problematic.Ms. Wojcicki and her staff considered their thicket of policies. A “dangerous” (risk of bodily harm) activity could stay on YouTube as long as no minors were involved. But “ultrahazardous” (risk of death) challenges would be removed. One staffer ventured that the condom challenge seemed to belong in the former category. Ms. Wojcicki disagreed.“There’s no reason we want people putting any kind of plastic over their head,” she said, peering over the screen of her open laptop. But the video stayed up. For every minute Ms. Wojcicki spent discussing it, users uploaded to the site an additional 500 hours of footage.Unlike many of her tech-C.E.O. peers, Ms. Wojcicki (pronounced “Woe-jisky”) does not have a tidy origin story to tell reporters; there was no aha! moment in a dorm room that has been polished and embellished over the years. She didn’t drop out of Harvard; she graduated. But in 1998, Ms. Wojcicki and her husband rented part of their Menlo Park, Calif., home for $1,700 a month to a pair of Stanford University graduate students named Larry Page and Sergey Brin. They had just started a search engine called Google.Ms. Wojcicki was working for Intel at the time, and one day, she wasn’t able to find an important piece of information because Google was down. She realized that she had become dependent on “the site developed by those two dudes in my garage.” Ms. Wojcicki joined Google as its 16th employee and its first marketing manager.With a baby on the way, she was going to work for a company with no revenue. She helped turn Google into a juggernaut, developing its signature advertising product, AdWords, and overseeing its first foray into content sharing, called Google Video. In 2006, swallowing her pride, she encouraged Google to acquire a rival service called YouTube for $1.65 billion. (Morgan Stanley recently estimated that the division is now worth $160 billion.)Over the years, Ms. Wojcicki built a personal fortune estimated in the hundreds of millions, and she remains a close confidant of Mr. Page, who is now the chief executive of Google’s parent, Alphabet. One former executive told me, “Susan is the first cousin of the Google royal family.”Ms. Wojcicki’s biological family is remarkably accomplished. She is the oldest of three sisters; the middle one, Janet, is an anthropologist, epidemiologist and former Fulbright scholar; and the youngest, Anne, co-founded 23andMe, the DNA testing company. (Anne was also married to Mr. Brin until 2015.)Being part of a high-profile clan can cause confusion. Chris Dale, a YouTube spokesman, once learned that People magazine planned to run a story that Susan Wojcicki was dating Alex Rodriguez, the former New York Yankees slugger. Mr. Dale recalls sheepishly calling his boss — who had been married for more than 20 years — in the middle of a parent-teacher meeting to ask if she was having an affair. She was not. Anne, not Susan, had been seeing Mr. Rodriguez.Since taking over YouTube, fame has been something Ms. Wojcicki has tried to avoid. But she is warm and approachable in person, and for one recent interview, she arrived at the office dressed like any other Google employee, with black cowboy boots and a backpack slung over one shoulder, ready to discuss her track record. “One way I think about some of the decisions is putting myself in the future and thinking: in five or 10 years, what will they say?” Ms. Wojcicki said. “If someone were to look back on the decisions that we’re making, would they feel we were on the right side of history? Would I feel proud? Will my children feel like I made good decisions?”Whether vacuous or violent, YouTube troubles arise at a dumbfounding pace. Last year, YouTube banned both the “Tide Pod” challenge, which involved biting into laundry detergent pods, and “No lackin” videos, in which participants aim guns at each other. Confronted by one crisis after another, Ms. Wojcicki has introduced policies to curb the spread of problematic videos and raised the bar on which videos can carry advertising. The challenge is cleaning up the mess while keeping her various constituencies — users, creators, advertisers, parents, lawmakers — happy, or at least not irate.When she became C.E.O., Ms. Wojcicki inherited an audacious goal: Get users to watch more than one billion hours of videos every day, a tenfold increase from 2012. She kept the target in place and made some changes at the margins. In 2016, YouTube scaled back recommendations of sensational and clickbait-y videos, because it found users were drawn to watching them but later regretted it — a lot like eating junk food.Two of Ms. Wojcicki’s inflection points came in spring 2017. That March, major advertisers, including AT&T and Johnson & Johnson, boycotted the service after reports that their messages appeared on offensive content. Then, in June, three men drove a van into pedestrians on London Bridge. Media reports said one of the attackers had watched the inflammatory YouTube sermons of an Islamic cleric. Ms. Wojcicki said the attack clarified for her that her company could no longer keep content at arm’s length and hide behind a broadly articulated set of community guidelines.“We needed to have a deeper understanding of the issues, we needed to have much deeper enforcement and we needed to have much more precision in our policies,” Ms. Wojcicki said. In the months that followed, she added thousands of human reviewers to examine controversial videos and created an “intelligence desk” to identify percolating issues on the internet more quickly. Her staff also deployed Google’s machine-learning systems to flag extremist content.These days, YouTube says it is pursuing what the company calls “responsible growth.” When asked what that means, Ms. Wojcicki said an easy explanation was a challenge.To boil it down: YouTube wants to remove the content that violates its policies more quickly and effectively; promote better, more authoritative material and limit the spread of videos that are potentially harmful but do not break the rules.Ms. Wojcicki said the third category, so-called borderline content, has been the most challenging. Earlier this year, the company announced that it was changing its algorithm to stop recommending material like conspiracy videos that can become a gateway to the unsavory.Starting with the United States, YouTube said it would employ human raters from across the country to evaluate certain content. Those judgments will help inform what the recommendation engine flags. (Clearly, the algorithms need attention. This week, they mistakenly added information about the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks to footage of the Notre Dame fire.) YouTube said it plans to introduce the change to another 20 countries this year, deploying raters in each market to understand the preferences of local users.When asked why she didn’t act sooner, Ms. Wojcicki said she wished she had. “If I were to go back in time, I certainly would have accelerated all of these features, and I would have accelerated all of this work because now I’ve realized how important it is,” she said. “I realized at the time, too. We always thought it was important, but I can’t emphasize the number of people and systems that it is taking for us to implement it.”At the YouTube policy meeting I observed, Ms. Wojcicki asked 37 questions in one hour. They were short. And direct. In one exchange, a YouTube staffer (I agreed to not use their names) briefed her on an uptick in users uploading soft-core pornography.Ms. Wojcicki: “You feel good about the changes we made, and that that group has been managed?”Staffer: “Yes. I mean, they’ll keep evolving.”Ms. Wojcicki: “How did we find it?”The staffer described an anomaly-detection system.Ms. Wojcicki: “And then you terminated those accounts?”Staffer: “That’s right.”YouTube’s mammoth video corpus and flow of new kinds of content present a challenge that simply never ends. Another test is always around the corner, whether it be the 2020 presidential elections or A.I.-generated “deepfake” technology. In the meantime, it’s hard to declare progress, much less victory, when the failures are so notable.Ms. Wojcicki said that seeing harmful videos and the hateful behavior of people online is the worst part of her job. “It’s probably not even rewarding, because everybody is angry at you all the time,” she said. “But I think it’s probably some of the most important work that I will do in my career, because it’s setting a standard of responsibility for the internet.”She has become a pariah among a vocal minority of YouTube enthusiasts who think she has gone too far to alter what made YouTube popular in the first place. When Ms. Wojcicki started her own YouTube channel in fall 2017, her videos were overrun by negative comments, including anti-Semitic remarks and insults about her looks and manner of speaking. Her first post — a slick montage with YouTube stars offering advice on making videos — received five times as many thumbs-down votes as thumbs-up. When YouTube published a year-in-review compilation, which excluded reference to its troubles, it became the most disliked video in the site’s history. Even Ms. Wojcicki’s kids, she said, told her that it was “cringey.”The growing backlash against YouTube has complicated some personal relationships. Marc Benioff, the chairman of Salesforce, said last year that social media was potentially as harmful as cigarettes and needed to be regulated. Ms. Wojcicki has been a Salesforce board director since 2014, and Mr. Benioff is a longtime acquaintance. For this article, YouTube arranged for an interview with Mr. Benioff to provide insight about her. But on the morning of a scheduled call, Mr. Benioff was feuding on Twitter with its C.E.O. about a proposed tax to pay for services for the homeless in San Francisco.He joined the call 40 minutes late, saying he only had five minutes to spare. When I asked how Ms. Wojcicki reacted to his comments about social media, Mr. Benioff became upset. He said he wasn’t “prepared to answer” the question and had expected to speak about her leadership style. Then he ended the call.In a written statement sent a week later, Mr. Benioff said: “We’re living in a crisis of trust, and as I’ve said before that if our industry doesn’t self-regulate, the government will do it for us. But I don’t think that reality fazes someone like Susan because she knows, no matter what, the power of trust and transparency far outweighs whatever regulation that may come our way.”The easiest way to judge a C.E.O.’s performance, of course, is to study their company’s financial results. In the case of YouTube, that’s a matter of guesswork. The company is a few layers deep within Alphabet and its financial results are not disclosed. YouTube reveals data points in drips and drabs, but the numbers are too absent of context to be of much use. On the last earnings call with analysts, for example, Google said that the number of YouTube channels with more than one million subscribers nearly doubled last year, and that the number of creators making more than $10,000 annually grew more than 40 percent. But investors do not know YouTube’s profit or costs, or how Ms. Wojcicki has affected them over time.From what we can glean, though, YouTube’s business appears to be thriving. Alphabet cited its “strong contribution” as a key factor for the company’s record profits in the fourth quarter. Analysts estimate that YouTube’s annual revenue has surpassed $15 billion and is growing at 30 to 40 percent a year.If building a business with Netflix-size revenue inside Alphabet wasn’t enough to gain Ms. Wojcicki job security from YouTube’s policing struggles, there’s also the Larry factor. She technically reports to Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief executive, but she answers to Mr. Page. She remains one of the few people at the company with “walk-in access” to the reclusive co-founder, one Google executive told me. “She is not going anywhere,” this person said.One reason Ms. Wojcicki defies easy characterization is that her core function keeps changing. Today, her job is to be something like the standards czar of an anarchic civilization. Before that, when YouTube started home-growing celebrity icons, she was a budding media mogul. But in whatever role YouTube has needed her to assume, Ms. Wojcicki has not lost sight of the skill she learned early on at Google: how to keep advertisers happy.Marc S. Pritchard, Procter & Gamble’s chief brand officer, who is responsible for one of the biggest advertising budgets in the world, said his company has had some rocky moments with YouTube in the last few years, and that Ms. Wojcicki has been a steadying presence.Like other major marketers, P.&G. stopped spending on YouTube in early 2017 when it found its advertisements running next to videos with violence, extreme language and other consumer-unfriendly qualities. When Mr. Pritchard called Ms. Wojcicki with the bad news, he said, the conversation was not contentious. She told him: “You’re an important partner. We’re going to work together to get this fixed.”Almost a year after P.&G. put its wallet away, the “Tide Pod challenge” started to spread across YouTube. Tide is one of P.&G.’s flagship brands, and Mr. Pritchard said that late one Friday night, Ms. Wojcicki called him with reassurances that her company was on top of the problem. She added a metaphor about the scale of the challenge: YouTube had started out as a small city, but it had grown into a metropolis.“I think you’ve grown well beyond a metropolis,” Mr. Pritchard recalled telling her. “You grew into a galaxy. That has implications beyond anything you would have ever known.” Within a few hours, the worst Tide Pod videos were scrubbed from YouTube, and the platform changed its algorithm so anyone searching for them would be shown a safety video.“No debate, just action,” said Mr. Pritchard. A few months later, P.&G. announced that it would resume advertising on YouTube.Over Presidents’ Day weekend, Ms. Wojcicki was traveling with her family when another ad disaster struck. A YouTuber named Matt Watson posted a video with the title “YouTube is Facilitating the Sexual Exploitation of Children, and It’s Being Monetized.” It demonstrated how pedophiles were coordinating their behavior on the site, including on some videos sponsored by big brands, and those companies started to pull their advertising.Ms. Wojcicki asked her staff to do a “content review” to remove any problematic videos and comments. She coordinated with senior executives and the “incident commander,” a rotating position she had created to ensure that every “escalation” — that’s corporate-speak for “a terrible thing found on our platform” — had a point person overseeing the response. Eventually, YouTube said it removed inappropriate comments from thousands of videos and would disable comments permanently on most content featuring children under 13.Ms. Wojcicki said while the situation was regrettable, it also demonstrated that some of YouTube’s new policies are helping. YouTube was able to turn off comments on millions of videos over a holiday weekend, something it would have struggled to do in the past.A month later, when YouTube’s human reviewers were overwhelmed by a deluge of videos of the mass shooting in New Zealand — at one point, footage of the shooting was being uploaded every second — Ms. Wojcicki said the company intentionally disabled search functions. It also bypassed human reviewers and let its computers immediately take down any videos that were automatically flagged.She said each horrible incident helps the company be better prepared for the next one. And there will always be a next one, as long as YouTube remains open to allowing anyone with an internet connection to upload a video.After a long conversation, Ms. Wojcicki became introspective. She said she joined Google because she wanted to do something meaningful with her life, and saw the company’s mission of helping people find the right information as inspiring. But now she recognizes that her ultimate legacy will be whether YouTube can get a handle on its problems.“I know we can do better, but we’re going to get there. We’ll get to a point where we have solved a lot of these issues, and I feel like we’ve already made significant progress,” she said. “I own this problem, and I’m going to fix it.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the nationality of a gunman suspected of killing 50 people in New Zealand. He is from Australia, not New Zealand.Advertisement"
" FeatureAfter decades of resistance to sports gambling, team owners and state officials are laying the groundwork for it — with potentially huge implications.CreditCreditPhoto illustration by Najeebah Al-Ghadban. Source photograph: Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images.Supported byBy Bruce SchoenfeldHalf an hour before a preseason hockey game last fall, Ted Leonsis strolled down the concourse of Capital One Arena in Washington, stopping every now and then to pose for someone’s selfie. Leonsis owns both the Washington Capitals, the National Hockey League team, and the arena itself, a squat behemoth that fills a block of Chinatown not far from Ford’s Theater. He also owns other teams that play there, including the Washington Wizards, in the National Basketball Association, and some smaller ones that don’t.Leonsis is easily the most popular sports owner in the nation’s capital, though the Wizards have managed just one division title in his eight seasons and his N.H.L. team underachieved for years. It helps that the Capitals finally won the Stanley Cup last season, the city’s first championship in any major professional league in more than a quarter-century. But Leonsis is also uncommonly friendly to fans. During his customary lap around the arena, he fielded questions from anyone who came up to him. It was hard to imagine many big-league owners doing the same.A middle-aged African-American man in a Capitals jersey approached Leonsis. “What about that gambling thing?” he asked. A few months before, the federal statute prohibiting sports gambling was overturned by the Supreme Court; this was the first home game since a few states, newly liberated to set their own gambling agendas, had implemented laws allowing sports bets. Leonsis has been vocal about his support for legal gambling, and he was full of ideas. One was a sports bar he planned to put inside the arena that would handle bets. It would fit into a space currently occupied by a brewpub, or perhaps displace a fitness center. He envisioned betting windows, like those at a horse track.Sports gambling wasn’t yet legal in the District of Columbia, and until it was, there would be no betting windows. But Leonsis is confident that they will come. “Eventually,” he told me, the bar “will be somewhere that fans can congregate and watch games and bet on the games in whatever way they want to” — whether at the windows or on hand-held devices. Leonsis would outsource the bookmaking, because owning a team while taking bets on its games would be perceived as a conflict of interest (and probably be illegal). Instead, he would simply offer a site for eating, drinking and more gambling. “Except that I want to outlaw the word ‘gambling,’ ” he said. “Maybe call it ‘interactive wagering.’ When you hear ‘gambling,’ you think of Tony Soprano — ‘I’m with my bookie.’ People who bet on N.C.A.A. pools at their church, they don’t think they’re gambling. They are.”Leonsis, who held various executive positions at America Online from 1994 to 2007, says he doesn’t gamble — not on sports or on anything else. Yet he has risked both his reputation and his capital on the future of sports wagering. He owns a stake in DraftKings, a daily sports fantasy company that has segued into online gambling. He has invested in Sportradar, which delivers, at high speed, information on games in progress to bookmaking websites, creating the sort of advantage enjoyed by Wall Street traders who, in his words, “get a quarter of a second more to say ‘buy that stock.’ ” He owns part of WinView, which holds numerous patents for various aspects of in-game gambling. He hopes to fill the schedule of the NBC Sports Washington cable channel, of which he owns a third, with chatter about point spreads and gambling opportunities. “Like CNBC,” he says.Gambling on sports became explicitly legal in Nevada in 1949. Until recently, the prospect of it spreading beyond that state’s borders was treated as potentially ruinous by the franchise owners and commissioners who ruled over sports. They feared that it would alter the relationship between fans and their favorite teams, and that gambling would expose athletes to underworld characters trying to manipulate games. Eventually, the cautionary tale went, the competition in even the biggest leagues would be indistinguishable from the manufactured plotlines of pro wrestling or old-time roller derby. Gambling on sports was already happening, of course — at Las Vegas casinos, on illegal internet sites, at the corner bar — yet somehow that hadn’t made it more palatable. “Even five years ago,” says Steve Murray, a partner with Leonsis in the venture-capital firm that has invested in many of these businesses, “you would have had a hard time finding a single owner in any of these leagues saying that gambling was a good idea. You wouldn’t have been able to do it.”Since then, attitudes seem to have changed abruptly. It’s now difficult to find anyone inside sports who opposes gambling. In part that’s because the leagues and their investors have come to see how much they stand to gain. But it’s also a result of insiders like Leonsis evangelizing to anyone who would listen: in owners’ meetings, in conversations with sponsors, even with U.S. congressmen during a 2017 gambling conference on Capitol Hill. “He’s a visionary, and he speaks quite eloquently about what the future opportunities are,” says Gary Bettman, the N.H.L.’s commissioner, who until recently strongly opposed gambling on sports. “He has been at the forefront of pushing us to make sure we’re as knowledgeable as we can be. I get emails on this from him daily — more than daily.”Leonsis speaks slowly but exuberantly. His conversation unfolds as logically as a business plan. “What are you so afraid of?” he likes to ask anyone who seems uneasy about gambling. “We’re going to create more jobs. We’re going to generate more taxes.” While pro athletes were once paid poorly enough to make the offers of payoffs enticing, Leonsis argues that a vast majority are today far wealthier than anyone who might tempt them. “I don’t think an N.B.A. player is susceptible to some hustler saying, ‘Shave the points, and here’s $5,000 in hundred-dollar bills,’ ” he says.Leonsis arrived back at his suite shortly after the opening face-off. He sat down in time to see the Boston Bruins score a goal. I mentioned that where sports wagers were now legal, gamblers had surely placed bets both for and against the Capitals. Leonsis wanted his team to win, naturally, even though this preseason game didn’t really count. But he admitted that just the fact that those bets could be made meant that, in a sense, he’d already won.In the middle of the 20th century, television began reframing the way we experience sports. It gave us replays and extended timeouts, pushed World Series games into prime time, scrambled conference affiliations. Through national telecasts and highlights and, later, superstations and cable networks, fans grew intimate with teams many hundreds of miles away. Now gambling is poised to unleash changes just as transformative, and they may come fast. In an October report, PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated that a fully developed sports gambling industry in all states would draw $100 billion in bets every year; the congressional National Gambling Impact Study Commission has suggested the figure could be closer to $400 billion. Whatever the size of the jackpot, leagues, teams and broadcasters will want their piece of it. “The players, the sponsors, all the stakeholders in the ecosystem can become beneficiaries of this,” says Peter Guber, an owner of both the Golden State Warriors and the Los Angeles Dodgers.The games we watch are already enhanced by data collected through technological advances. Announcers tell us how hard baseballs are hit and how far they travel, or how many miles a particularly active soccer player has run. Because such derivatives create new opportunities for betting, we’re sure to see many more of them. (The N.B.A. has been advertising for a gambling data analyst on the employment website Glassdoor.) Hockey hasn’t traditionally generated much in the way of metrics, but in order to learn who is skating the fastest or shooting the hardest, the N.H.L. is preparing to record the movements of every player during every game and even put a chip inside the puck. “Leagues are building a fire hose of data around their product,” says Chris Grove, an analyst who consults for gaming companies and investors. “And the logical recipient of that data is the betting industry.”What are the chances that someone homers in the next two innings? Or kicks a field goal in the next five minutes? Imagine those odds sliding across the bottom of your screen like the CNN news crawl. As a sports media consultant and former N.B.A. executive named Ed Desser puts it, “How does the production and presentation of telecasts change to accommodate gambling?” Explicit references to betting might seem jarring during a Masters broadcast, which has the feel of a conversation in a Ritz-Carlton lobby. But Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson’s made-for-TV showdown in November, which included such information, gave viewers more reasons to care about what happened.Real-time digital wagering has created betting opportunities that don’t rely on the score; the appeal of a game in which the Patriots are up by 30 points in the fourth quarter is altogether different if you can put money down right then on how many more first downs they’ll get. As viewers create their own narrative tension by betting on pieces of the action, broadcast rights fees will increase and franchise values soar. That tension could also be artificially created and exploited by event promoters too. “If you’re the U.F.C. and you have an absolute dog of a fight on a major card for whatever reason, you could use odds and promotions around betting to drive fan interest,” Grove points out. “You could use betting proactively.”Legal gambling also opens the door to an entirely new source of sponsorship income. In English soccer, 26 of the 44 teams that compete in the sport’s top echelons wear shirts festooned with the names of bookmaking sites. Don’t be surprised to see them soon in the N.B.A. or Major League Soccer. Games will be held in venues with names like the Bet365 Bowl or Caesars Coliseum and be analyzed by touts on TV and subscription podcasts. “As you create more interest in these things, people want more information,” Desser says. “And they’re always looking for an edge.”Perhaps nobody sees more dollar signs on the horizon than legislators. It remains uncertain how quickly states will continue to pass new gambling laws, or how broad or restrictive those will be, but few dispute the potential impact. “I was talking to some economic development people from Alabama,” says Jack Evans, a District of Columbia council member who introduced a sports gambling bill there that is expected to become law in March. “They were asking how they could raise money. I told them: ‘Put in sports gambling and you can pay off all your debts on the Alabama-Auburn football game alone. One game, Alabama and Auburn. You’d make billions.’ ”Leonsis has a stake in nearly all of these possibilities. He envisions simulcasts of every Wizards and Capitals game on NBC Sports Washington that will include a steady stream of betting information. He controls two teams in the resurrected Arena Football League and is pitching networks a gambling-centric concept for its games that’s too overt for the stodgy N.F.L., at least for now. Sportradar’s chief executive told me he expects its $2.4 billion valuation to quintuple in three years with the opening of the U.S. market, which will mean the same for Leonsis’s stake. And if franchise values rise because of fans’ increased engagement in the sports they follow, Leonsis’s N.H.L. and N.B.A. teams could be his most profitable gambling plays of all. In time, sports betting may generate its own Mark Zuckerberg or Jeff Bezos, some forward-thinking entrepreneur who comes to define the zeitgeist of his generation. For now, though, the person whose odds are as great as anyone’s to profit from this emerging industry is Leonsis, a 62-year-old billionaire who has been around since the early days of the World Wide Web.The history of regulated gambling in America goes back to 1931, when Nevada opened the nation’s first casinos. The state was on the verge of bankruptcy, a predicament that motivated it to defy the prevailing national sentiment against gambling. “Any state could have done it,” says Anthony Cabot, who teaches gaming law at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. “But no others did.” Just as pro football was starting to thrive, Nevada broadened its gambling law to regulate sports bets. Over the next half-century, American attitudes toward gambling evolved. In 1978, with great fanfare, casinos opened in Atlantic City. A decade later, Congress passed a law permitting them on land owned by Native American tribes. By 2003, a Gallup Poll revealed, nearly half of all Americans had played the lottery in the previous 12 months; almost a third had visited a casino. But just 10 percent had bet on a pro sports event, mostly because there were few legal ways to do it.Nobody tried to legalize sports betting outside Nevada until Chris Christie. By the time Christie became New Jersey’s governor in 2010, Atlantic City was in trouble. The novelty appeal of its casinos had faded. Hotel bookings had plummeted — and tax-generating casino revenues with them. Christie saw sports betting as a way to counter those losses. His first year in office, he pushed a referendum that would allow it at any racetrack or casino in the state. The referendum passed, and Christie signed it into law.There was only one problem. Through the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992 — which, in a somewhat curious twist, had been sponsored by New Jersey’s own Bill Bradley, the former N.B.A. great turned senator — the federal government banned sports gambling throughout the country, beyond a few existing manifestations that were allowed to continue. Those included betting on bicycle racing in New Mexico and golf in Wyoming, several sports-based lotteries, horse racing, jai alai and the bookmaking inside Nevada’s casinos.In 2014, New Jersey’s referendum was challenged in court by the N.C.A.A. The major sports leagues joined the suit as plaintiffs. But Christie had calculated that the Supreme Court wouldn’t uphold a law banning a recreational pursuit in 49 states that had been legal for decades in the 50th, and he was right. The court, analysts noted, wanted to make a show of limiting federal jurisdiction. “They just happened to pick a gambling law to do so,” Cabot says. Last May’s verdict in what had been renamed Murphy v. N.C.A.A., after Christie’s successor, Phil Murphy, surprised the gambling industry. “You’d be amazed how many casino operators didn’t see it coming,” says Greg Carlin, co-founder and chief executive of Rush Street Gaming, which owns casinos in Pennsylvania, New York and Illinois. It didn’t surprise Leonsis, though. He’d been planning on it for years.Leonsis dates his personal revelation about gambling to November 2015, when he found himself visiting the remote southwest coast of Scotland. His daughter, who lived in London, had a serious boyfriend, and both families had flown in to spend Thanksgiving weekend at a manor house owned by the boyfriend’s parents. On a clear day, Leonsis was told, you could see Ireland across the water. He never could confirm that, though, because the weather was never clear. The basketball and hockey seasons were underway back home, but the house had no internet or satellite reception, so Leonsis couldn’t follow his teams. It was foggy and cold. “There was nothing to do,” he says.The closest village of any size, Campbeltown, was 40 minutes away. One morning, they all drove in for lunch. Nobody seemed to be around. “The whole town is like two blocks long,” Leonsis says. “And there’s one restaurant and a pharmacy. And then we saw one place that had some life to it.” Inside a storefront, a crowd was making noise. It was the betting parlor, Leonsis learned. The phrase didn’t carry any connotation of disrepute, as it would in America. “It was just, ‘This is where you go and watch a game and see your friends and hang out,’ ” he said. “It was the ‘Cheers’ of Campbeltown.”From Scotland, Leonsis went to London. Driving through his daughter’s neighborhood, he noticed one betting parlor after another. “Like in America, where you’d have a Starbucks,” he says. He investigated and found that you could bet on sports at 8,500 outlets in the United Kingdom. As a comparison, he looked up Domino’s pizza and saw that it had roughly 5,500 stores across the United States. “For me, that was the beginning of, ‘Hey, this is a true consumer phenomenon,’ ” he says. The parlors seemed inviting. They weren’t seedy haunts for professional gamblers. “This is not Off-Track Betting,” Leonsis says. “This is Starbucks or Domino’s. This is popularized and accepted in the most remote places and the most centrally located places. If you wanted to find a proxy of what could happen here, you just had to look at Campbeltown and London.”Adam Silver, who is now the N.B.A.’s commissioner, had been doing just that. From 1998 to 2006, Silver ran the league’s video production and programming. On frequent business trips abroad, he couldn’t help noticing how pervasive gambling was. Stadiums had betting kiosks beside their snack bars. “There was this enormous legalized infrastructure in place,” Silver says. Yet somehow, leagues and teams hadn’t been corrupted. In fact, they were thriving. Silver’s boss at the time, David Stern, was a lawyer who had come to the sport during college basketball’s betting scandals of the 1960s. Throughout his tenure, Stern remained opposed to gambling — he later changed his mind — and for years even refused to hold league meetings and other events in Las Vegas. “But the opportunity seemed fairly obvious to me,” Silver says.In 2014, Silver succeeded Stern as N.B.A. commissioner. That year, in a New York Times Op-Ed, he made an argument that did not differ much from those advocating the legalization of marijuana. “Despite legal restrictions, sports betting is widespread,” he wrote. “Because there are few legal options available, those who wish to bet resort to illicit bookmaking operations and shady offshore websites.” Why not bring the action into the light, he proposed, where it could be regulated, and the movement of betting lines and the sums of money monitored?Earlier that fall, the N.B.A. signed a nine-year, $24 billion television rights deal. At the league’s board of governors meeting in New York, Leonsis, who was chairman of its media committee, presented it to the rest of the owners. Even as he celebrated the deal, he cautioned that such fees were unlikely to grow, though the cost of operating teams inevitably would. “We have to find new pots of gold,” he said.Leonsis believed he had found them on that trip to the United Kingdom. You can hold your nose all you want, he later told his colleagues, but gambling offered a viable and wholly untapped source of revenue for the N.B.A. Leonsis can be almost courtly in negotiations, and he was polite when he met resistance. Privately, though, he shook his head. How could you ignore such an opportunity, ready to be taken advantage of as soon as the law allowed? What are you so afraid of?For decades, sports gambling tended to be a static experience. You bet on a team and handed money to somebody, and maybe got a slip of paper in return. Then you waited to find out if you were right. That changed when three American options traders moved to Antigua in the mid-1990s to create an online gambling business they named World Sports Exchange. Instead of offering point spreads, World Sports Exchange operated like a commodities market. Before tipoff, options on the favored Lakers, for example, might cost $60 each. Options on the Knicks, the underdogs, might sell for $40. At the end of the game, the options on the losing team would become worthless, while the options on the winning team would each pay out $100.But here was the novelty: You didn’t have to wait until the game was over to cash in. If the Lakers scored the first eight points, the value of that $60 option might grow to, say, $72. You could sell it and pocket your $12 gain. You might then invest in the Knicks at a discount. Or you might wait for the price to fall and buy another option on the Lakers. You could buy and sell options, on either team or both, throughout the game. Once you’d started, it was hard to stop until the game ended. It was exhausting. It was also great fun. And even more than the other bookmakers operating beyond U.S. borders, which were handling traditional bets, it seemed to threaten the monopoly on sports gambling that Nevada’s casinos had long enjoyed.I met one of those traders, Haden Ware, under a thatched roof in the Caribbean in early 2000. He was drinking beer and eating lobster salad. Steve Schillinger, a partner at World Sports Exchange, later confided to me that he and Ware were each making more than $1 million a year. Yet they were miserable. The Interstate Wire Act of 1961 had outlawed taking bets over telephone lines. In that era of dial-up internet access, that’s exactly what World Sports Exchange was doing. Online gambling was “especially pernicious,” in the words of Jon Kyl, the U.S. senator from Arizona. “You get up in the morning and log on to your computer and start to gamble. It plays to the addictive nature of many people, especially kids.” Quoting an unnamed Harvard professor, Kyl called it “the crack cocaine of gambling.” A conservative Republican, Kyl introduced specific legislation against internet gambling and vowed to indict expats taking bets online. In 1998, 21 U.S. citizens were charged with Wire Act violations. Among them were Ware, Schillinger and Jay Cohen, another partner. Weary of living in exile, Cohen flew home. He was convicted and served 18 months in prison. Janet Reno, the U.S. Attorney General, backed Kyl’s efforts. So did casinos, sports leagues and gambling interest groups — just about everyone, in fact, except some Indian tribes. Even the lobbyist being paid by World Sports Exchange acknowledged that the opponents of digital gambling had a point. “The casinos worked a long time to establish legitimacy,” he told me.Eventually, World Sports Exchange was overtaken by better-funded rivals. It ceased operations in 2013. That same day, Schillinger committed suicide. After serving his sentence, Cohen disappeared to Europe. By then, though, their insight that betting doesn’t have to stop when play begins had revolutionized the industry; what DraftKings and its competitors are currently doing in New Jersey, and what companies like Betfair and Bet365 do in England, could not exist without it.Since the demise of World Sports Exchange, sports betting on various hand-held devices has proliferated. And because smartphones and tablets routinely capture the details of each transaction, proponents argue that games are actually better protected against manipulation when digital betting is legal. “If there was a huge bet placed against a team two hours before an announcement that its star player wouldn’t be participating, that is something that should cause us to investigate,” Silver says. “And it’s something that historically we wouldn’t have known.”For many N.B.A. owners — and some in other leagues as well — the conversion began in 2014 with Silver’s Op-Ed and his argument that legalization actually offered more protection, not less, from the unsavory characters who might try to influence players. Europe was proving to be a test case, and its teams were thriving. Now Leonsis has come along, telling owners that their franchises would gain in value because gambling, like fantasy leagues, gives fans another reason to be engrossed in a sport.“Ted was able to articulate the value proposition of not just the betting, but the deepening of the engagement,” Guber says. Rather than customers, Leonsis thinks of fans as an audience. “He understood that audiences want experiences,” Guber says. “This gives them a chance to walk away telling their own story — ‘I saw this opportunity, I recognized what this player would be able to accomplish.’ When you have a tool that makes an audience more of a participant than a passenger, it’s a very vital and vibrant element.”There are risks inherent in legalizing sports gambling, Guber believes. But after talking with Leonsis, he became convinced that its opportunities far outweighed them. The N.B.A. was still a plaintiff when the Supreme Court heard the gambling case in late 2017, but by then Guber was among the many owners who were rooting for New Jersey to win.One afternoon last October, Terry Link drove from his home outside Chicago to Springfield, the Illinois state capital. An informational presentation about gambling was scheduled in the House of Representatives the following day, and Link, a Democrat who serves as assistant majority leader in the Illinois Senate, wanted to attend. Since he was first elected in 1996, he has sponsored several gambling bills. Not one became law. “I’m still waiting to get one signed,” he says ruefully.Before dinner that evening, he stopped into a bar to meet Jeremy Kudon, a lobbyist whom DraftKings and its competitor FanDuel have hired to help persuade legislators to pass laws allowing digital gambling. After ordering a soda, Link told Kudon that Illinois casinos hoped to use sports betting to get new customers into their buildings. He reminded Kudon that casinos have generated plenty of tax money for the state. Because of that, Link said, he wouldn’t favor a bill that would allow gamblers to undermine them by “placing bets from the couches in their living rooms.”This was a problem for Kudon, because bets placed from living-room couches are exactly what his clients need to survive. Kudon argued that gamblers were already betting from their couches, but doing so on illegal websites. And the state was missing out on its cut.DraftKings and FanDuel, whose valuations are both estimated to exceed $1 billion, were founded on the same idea: curate a limitless number of fantasy leagues for profit, generated by participation fees, and let customers choose new players every day. For many fans, watching games quickly became the equivalent of monitoring their investment portfolios, except the investments were bets on individual players. Eric Schneiderman, New York’s attorney general at the time, thought that sounded a lot like gambling.Games of skill are legal in every state; you can pay to participate in fishing or bowling competitions, for example, and win cash prizes. What you can’t do is bet on who you think will win those competitions. The fantasy sites argued, somewhat tenuously, that constructing a winning team is more like fishing than knowing who is good at fishing. Schneiderman disagreed. In 2015, he shut down both sites and fined the companies. At that point, DraftKings and FanDuel began working to get bills passed in state legislatures that would certify fantasy sports as legal.Soon after, Leonsis bought part of DraftKings. He tends to characterize troubled companies in one of two ways — as either “falling angels,” which eventually rise again, or as “falling knives,” which don’t. In DraftKings, he saw a falling angel. He anticipated that digital sports betting would become legal, and he agreed with Jason Robins, the DraftKings chief executive, that the gaming-industry giants everyone assumed would dominate the U.S. market — the English bookmaker William Hill or maybe Bally’s or Caesars — were actually at a disadvantage. “We have a big database of customers that we know from research are already betting on sports, mostly with black-market websites,” Robins says. “And we have a brand that is much more identified with winning money and betting on sports than any of them that we’re competing with.”Last summer, DraftKings partnered with a casino, as New Jersey’s law requires, and became the first company to begin taking digital bets. Since then, it has done more online business than any other bookmaker. Its ads blanket cable networks in New Jersey. “Get ready for thousands of ways to bet!” they shout — and they’re not exaggerating. One DraftKings executive estimates that the company’s app averages 45,000 to 55,000 different propositions for gamblers to consider every day.But sports gambling laws enacted in most other states have restricted digital activity. Mississippi allows it, but only if the gamblers are physically inside a casino. Delaware’s law has not yet allowed any digital betting at all. Some casinos plan to leverage their brands online, but many regard digital gambling as a threat. “We have hundreds of millions of dollars invested in our casinos,” says Dan Kehl, the chief executive of Elite Casino Resorts, whose family has been in the gambling business in Iowa since 1990.Kehl backs a bill that would require anyone who wants to bet on sports to first register at one of Iowa’s 19 casinos. That wouldn’t work in larger states, he acknowledges, but no one in Iowa is more than an hour’s drive from a casino. Registered gamblers could bet digitally, though on only a limited selection of propositions. “The question is, how far can we let the mobile go?” Kehl says. That troubles Leonsis, not just because DraftKings might not get the right to operate profitably there, but because nobody will. If gamblers betting on illegal sites can’t be persuaded to bet legally, much of the windfall that investors and politicians like Terry Link are anticipating won’t materialize. It’s not enough that states pass laws legalizing sports betting, Leonsis explains; they have to pass the right law. “The only way that gambling doesn’t work,” he says, “is if the revenue projections are off. If it turns out that all those estimates we hear are wildly inaccurate.”Despite Kudon’s best efforts, laws that Leonsis considers favorable have been a difficult sell, mostly because of political pressure from casinos. In Springfield that evening, Link acknowledged that he personally favored digital sites partnering with casinos and paying them fees. But, he told Kudon, the Illinois casinos insist that whatever fees they’d get wouldn’t make up for the loss of all those potential roulette players. At that, Kudon rolled his eyes. “The gamblers that we’re talking about aren’t going to casinos,” he said. “They’ll never set foot in Rivers,” a casino in Des Plaines, Ill., “because they can bet on sports on these illegal sites. So let’s encourage them to go on DraftKings or FanDuel instead, and Rivers will get a benefit.” To Kudon, the mathematics are clear. “The state gets its licensing fee, and now we’ve gotten rid of the black market,” he said. “That seems like a win to everyone.”If Link’s bill allowed hand-held gambling, as Kudon fantasized, travelers might even make bets while changing planes at O’Hare airport. He urged Link to consider what that would mean for Illinois, the millions of tax dollars that might be generated if gamblers didn’t have to travel to a casino to bet. Link stroked his chin. “I don’t think there’s a right answer yet,” Link said. “You have to look at all the factors involved. In New Jersey, nobody wants to go to the Boardwalk anymore. All the casinos there are going kaput.”He sighed. Common ground seemed a long way away. “Listen, there’s no such thing as a perfect bill,” he said. “The reason we don’t pass these bills comes down to one word: ‘greed.’ Nobody wants part of the pie — they want the whole damn pie.”Last July, Silver announced that the N.B.A. had, in a sponsorship deal, granted MGM Resorts the right to use league logos and data. Even the N.H.L.’s Bettman has come to terms with gambling. “We’ve had a very practical approach,” he told me in his office a few months later. The previous afternoon, the N.H.L. announced its own deal with MGM, though the payment involved was said to be far smaller than the N.B.A.’s.But gambling’s greatest impact, at least proportionally, could come in the new professional leagues it spawns and the moribund ones it helps to resurrect. The Arena Football League once included 19 teams spread across the continent; last year there were four. Leonsis owns the Washington and Baltimore franchises, which makes him not only the most powerful owner in the league but the only person preventing its demise. He has positioned it as an ideal entertainment vehicle for the next generation. That includes gambling, of course. Arena Football averages a touchdown every six plays, Leonsis notes, as well as 98 points a game. “Lots of data generated,” he says — and a multitude of possible bets.Greater than $30 billion has been bet legally on football since 1992, according to the Center for Gaming Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. That’s about 50 percent more than on basketball, and double the amount bet on baseball. Leonsis wants to expand the A.F.L. to six franchises, and eventually to 12. But his vision mandates a network partner that will market the game as the anti-N.F.L.: informal, expressive and gambling-friendly. It doesn’t matter that the league, as currently constituted, has almost no history, he says. Your favorite team will be the one you have money on at the moment.On a private flight to New York last fall, Leonsis ran through a pitch he planned to show Sean McManus, who runs the sports department at CBS. He envisioned fast-paced telecasts of A.F.L. games on an affiliated sports channel. But as the plane landed in Teterboro, N.J., he confided that he doesn’t believe CBS will end up investing. Its executives are leery of jeopardizing their relationship with the N.F.L., he said, and that’s probably wise. The N.F.L. most likely wouldn’t look kindly on one of its primary partners’ televising another football league’s games. As usual, though, Leonsis was looking further ahead.“If the N.F.L. is smart, they should want CBS to do this,” he said. “See how far they can take it. Let the A.F.L. be the canary in the coal mine. See what works and what doesn’t work, and then they can pull back from there on their own telecasts.” He paused. “CBS is going to be very nice to us today, but I don’t know if they’re ready for this. We’re going to blow their minds.”An hour later, he was still stuck in New Jersey traffic. He also hadn’t stopped talking about gambling. But while his ideas had the potential to be wildly lucrative, I was struck by how little had actually happened in the months since the Supreme Court ruling. The betting parlor in his arena remained theoretical. DraftKings was thriving in New Jersey, but it hadn’t yet been licensed in another state. Sportradar’s explosive growth still existed only in the imagination of its chief executive. And most of the gambling laws being considered in state legislatures included severe limitations on digital play. As a result, in most states that have passed gambling laws, early revenues haven’t met projections. The growth process is slow, Leonsis admitted, and unpredictable. Yet he remained optimistic. “At AOL, it took us 10 years to get to 5 million” users, he said. “Then it took us five years to get to 30 million.”Just then, his car passed a billboard for a casino that read “Fire Your Bookie.” Leonsis pulled out his phone. “Look,” he said. “I’ll show you.” The DraftKings app was pulsing with offers. There were odds on who would win that night’s N.F.L. game and by how much, but also bets on total points on various games, odds on tennis matches, even European basketball. I was scrolling through them when we entered the Holland Tunnel and everything vanished. “We just passed into New York,” Leonsis said. “So now it won’t work.”A moment before, I’d been a legal gambler. Now, if I tried to place a bet from the same seat in the same car, I’d be breaking the law. I didn’t say anything, but Leonsis must have read the incredulity in my expression. He shrugged.“It’s a work in progress,” he said.Bruce Schoenfeld is frequent contributor to the magazine. He last wrote about Mickey Callaway, the manager of the New York Mets.Advertisement"
0
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Paul Mozur and Karen WeiseSHANGHAI — Under China’s president, Xi Jinping, the last vestiges of the global internet have slowly disappeared from an online world that had already shut out Twitter, Google and Facebook.Now one of the last survivors, Microsoft’s Bing search engine, appears to have joined them — even though the American company already censors its results in China.The Chinese government appeared to block the search engine on Wednesday, in what would be a startling renunciation of more than a decade of efforts by Microsoft to engage with Beijing to make its products available. If the block proves to be permanent, it would suggest that Western companies can do little to persuade China to give them access to what has become the world’s largest internet market by users, especially at a time of increased trade and economic tensions with the United States.The Redmond, Wash., company has cooperated with local companies to provide its Windows and cloud services to win acceptance by the Chinese government. Its long-established research and development center has turned out valuable products and launched the careers of a generation of artificial-intelligence experts who have started important new companies in China.Beijing has carried out several waves of increasingly intense crackdowns on internet freedoms as the Communist Party has cemented its control over more aspects of Chinese life. That includes cracking down on foreign internet products, including blocks on Instagram and WhatsApp in recent years.Lately, the Chinese authorities have questioned or detained activists for posting on Twitter, even though the vast majority of people in China can’t access the microblogging service. (The activists generally posted on Twitter via special software that can circumvent China’s censors.)Chinese officials disclose few specifics about their censorship practices, and Bing’s status as of Thursday was not entirely clear. The Cyberspace Administration of China did not immediately respond to a request for comment.In a statement, Microsoft said, “We’ve confirmed that Bing is currently inaccessible in China and are engaged to determine next steps.”Greatfire.org, a group that tracks what sites are blocked in China, said the site appeared to be inaccessible in parts of the country but reachable in others. China’s blockages often take time to spread nationwide, though in the past some services have been blocked in some places only to be restored later.With Bing, Microsoft tried to play by China’s rules. For example, a search for the Dalai Lama, the religious leader, would turn up state media accounts within China that accused him of stirring up hatred and separatism. Outside the country, it would point to sites like Wikipedia.Other searches, like for Tiananmen Square or the Falun Gong religious group, were similarly scrubbed, though over the years users reported that using coded language could help turn up posts about some topics that were generally controlled.Blocking Bing would brick over one of the last holes in a wall of online filters that has isolated China’s internet from the rest of the world. Although not widely used in China, Bing has remained an option of last resort for some in China looking for an alternative to the dominant local search engine, Baidu. While it continues to dominate search traffic in China, Baidu has been at the center of complaints about poor search results and advertisements for questionable medical treatments.Earlier this week, a former journalist, Fang Kecheng, accused Baidu of largely returning search results that were links to its own products instead of those from external sites. The accusation, which Mr. Fang posted on social media with the headline “Baidu the Search Engine is Dead,” went viral in China.Baidu said in a statement that less than 10 percent of its search results included one specific Baidu product that Mr. Fang had singled out, and that its practices of using its own products in search results helped speed up download times.In an interview, Mr. Fang said the Chinese internet was developing into a series of walled gardens, rather than the sprawling forum for ideas that makes online life appealing to many, thanks to censorship and to the rise of big Chinese internet companies like Tencent and Bytedance that dominate the online experience on mobile phones. Blocking Bing would only make it worse.“Bing compromised in order to have a Chinese version to get into the country,” said Mr. Fang, a doctoral candidate at the Annenberg School for Communication at University of Pennsylvania. “It would be pathetic if even this can’t exist. We have one less alternative.”China has long been a difficult market for Microsoft. For years, it struggled to contend with widespread piracy of its Windows and Office software.In July 2014, four of its offices in China were stormed by officials who questioned executives, copied contracts and records and downloaded data from the company’s servers. What was described as an antitrust inquiry was spurred by Microsoft’s decision to end support for older Windows software to encourage users to switch to newer versions that were more difficult to pirate, according to analysts. The withdrawal of support for a still widely used, if dated, version of Windows only underscored the country’s reliance on foreign software.In 2017, to ensure state support for Windows, the company partnered with a state-run firm to produce a government-approved version of its Windows 10 software. The firm, Chinese Electronics Technology Corporation, makes electronics for the Chinese military and is a major vendor of surveillance technology in Xinjiang, where the government has thrown hundreds of thousands of Uighurs, a local Muslim minority, into re-education camps.Beijing has insisted on closer scrutiny of software used by government agencies and companies since Edward Snowden, a former American government consultant, revealed that United States intelligence agencies used American technology for hacking purposes.Despite the difficulties, foreign companies still hold out hope for access to China, which with its size and its thriving mobile phone culture represents a potentially vast market. LinkedIn and Airbnb still have businesses there, though they take pains to comply with local laws. LinkedIn, which Microsoft bought in 2016, censors content in China, and Airbnb coordinates with local authorities to provide access about who is staying at its listings.But trade tensions between China and the United States are only adding to the difficulties. Many American companies, along with Trump administration officials, accuse China of systematically forcing American companies to hand over their intellectual property to local partners or to government officials in the name of national security. So far, China has stopped short of boycotting American products, which could escalate the trade conflict and damage the Chinese economy.Baidu’s falling reputation led to some support among China’s intelligentsia for a re-entry by Google into the market with a censored search engine internally code-named Project Dragonfly. Its plans led to widespread criticism from Google’s own employees. Some Chinese activists also protested, arguing a censored search would be tantamount to complicity with Chinese censorship. Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, has said it is “not close to launching a search product in China.”Mr. Fang, the former journalist, said he had mixed feelings about a Google re-entry, noting that it would be good for Chinese who want a better search engine, but also that it would normalize censorship.“I feel people in the West can say from their point of view that they are totally against Google coming back, as they have nothing to do with China,” he said. “But as someone who truly wishes that Chinese are able to get better-quality information, I can’t 100 percent stand against it.”Paul Mozur reported from Shanghai, and Karen Weise from Seattle. Qiqing Lin contributed research.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)After two years of bitter patent battles across three continents, Apple and the chip maker Qualcomm have settled all of their disputes, Don Clark and Daisuke Wakabayashi of the NYT report.• The companies “agreed to dismiss all litigation between them worldwide. They added that they had reached a six-year agreement for Apple to pay unspecified royalties on Qualcomm’s patents.”• “That deal, which was effective as of April 1, included a two-year option for an extension, plus a multiyear agreement for Qualcomm to supply chips to Apple. In addition, Apple will make an undisclosed one-time payment to Qualcomm.”Hours later, Intel said it would stop selling smartphone modem chips — including 5G models that Apple had been expected to use next year — citing “no clear path to profitability.” Nikkei Asian Review reports, citing unnamed sources, that Apple had been concerned about relying solely on Intel for its 5G chips.And Qualcomm’s shares jumped 23 percent after it said it expected $2 per share in additional revenue from the settlement.“I’m floored,” said Patrick Moorhead, president and principal analyst at Moor Insights & Strategy, a technology analysis firm. “Qualcomm got the bigger win because it had the most to lose and the most to gain. And it ended today.”“How much the deal might affect people’s phone prices will not be clear until more financial details of the settlement are disclosed. But the effect on the price of individual handsets is not likely to be large,” Mr. Clark and Mr. Wakabayashi write.More 5G news: Nokia wants to take on Huawei on next-generation wireless infrastructure. And Huawei said that it has no 5G contracts from mainland China.Shares in Sprint tumbled over 7 percent yesterday after the WSJ reported that Justice Department staffers had concerns about its proposed sale to T-Mobile USA.Justice Department officials met with both carriers earlier this month to discuss the merger, according to news reports. They showed some skepticism about the structure of the transaction.But one man will decide whether to block the deal. That’s Makan Delrahim, the head of the Justice Department’s antitrust division — and it isn’t clear which way he is leaning.T-Mobile’s C.E.O., John Legere, is pushing back. He tweeted that the WSJ’s description of the meeting, which had Justice Department staffers saying the deal was “unlikely to be approved as currently structured,” was “simply untrue.”The companies still have about a month of regulatory reviews to wait out. And they could still make changes to the transaction to win over Washington officials.More: The White House is refusing House Democrats’ request for any documents about President Trump and the Justice Department review of AT&T’s takeover of Time Warner. The business of multibillion-dollar deals and complex derivative trades wasn’t Wall Street’s cash cow in the first quarter. That honor fell to bank branches, consumer apps and credit cards, Robert Armstrong of the FT reports.• “Over the past 12 months, shares in Morgan Stanley, which has no retail unit, and Goldman Sachs, which has only a tiny one, are the worst performing among the six big U.S. banks, having fallen 11 percent and 21 percent, respectively.”• “Conversely, JPMorgan and BofA, with the strongest retail units, trade at the widest premiums to tangible book value in the group.”• “ ‘Corporate and investment banking is not a source of growth, and asset management is not [either]. All the growth is coming from the retail banks,’ said Charles Peabody of Portales Partners.”• The big question, Mr. Armstrong writes, is how long this will last. Banks have kept deposit rates low even as the Fed’s rates have risen. But the difference between shorter-term and longer-term interest rates is narrowing, threatening that income.In the wake of two fatal crashes, two influential shareholder advisory firms have recommended big changes to Boeing’s board of directors, including a partial demotion for Dennis Muilenberg, the C.E.O.Mr. Muilenberg should lose his role as chairman, I.S.S. and Glass Lewis said. The two proxy advisory firms, who hold sway over many institutional investors, often recommend having an independent chairman.Separating the roles “eliminates the conflict of interest that inevitably occurs when a C.E.O. is responsible for self-oversight,” Glass Lewis wrote in its report to investors, according to the WSJ.Also under pressure: the head of Boeing’s audit committee, Lawrence Kellner. Glass Lewis want him removed for failing to foresee safety risks on the 737 Max planes.Boeing defended its current board and said it should decide its own leadership structure. “The board is not aware of clear evidence demonstrating that splitting the C.E.O. and chairman roles is good for all companies in all circumstances,” the company said in its proxy filing.Ads that ran alongside anti-vaccine content. Accusations of abetting child suicide. Viral content that showed pedophiles were flourishing in comments sections. YouTube has had a rough time recently. Daisuke Wakabayashi of the NYT looks at how its C.E.O., Susan Wojcicki, is coping.• “In an industry that celebrates eccentricity, Ms. Wojcicki presents as exceedingly normal, bordering on boring, even as elements of her digital realm burst into the real world in forms that are increasingly grotesque and sometimes dangerous.”• “Political figures and tech luminaries alike are castigating YouTube for not doing enough to rein in the crooks, crackpots, racists, Russian agents and charlatans who call the platform home. New horrors are ceaseless.”• Now, “YouTube wants to remove the content that violates its policies more quickly and effectively; promote better, more authoritative material and limit the spread of videos that are potentially harmful but does not break the rules.”• “I know we can do better, but we’re going to get there,” she said in an interview. “I own this problem, and I’m going to fix it.”• Ms. Wojcicki is unlikely to be unseated anytime soon. While she technically reports to Sundar Pichai, Google’s C.E.O., she is one of the few people at the tech giant with “walk-in access” to Larry Page, Alphabet’s reclusive co-founder and C.E.O. “She is not going anywhere,” one Google executive told Mr. Wakabayashi.The Chinese economy steadied itself in the first three months of the year, after Beijing flooded the financial system with money to avoid a slowdown, Alexandra Stevenson of the NYT reports.The world’s second largest economy was 6.4 percent bigger in the first quarter than in the same period of 2018, Ms. Stevenson reports, citing figures provided by Chinese officials. “The pace matched that of the fourth quarter, when growth suffered as shoppers pared back, the stock market slumped and private businesses pleaded for help.”“While economists generally regard China’s economic figures with skepticism, they point to other signs that the country’s current slowdown may have reached bottom. Other figures suggest shoppers are back at the tills, factory output is ticking up and the world, after several tough months, is buying more Chinese goods.”“Beijing needs such hopeful signs as it tries to reach a trade deal with the Trump administration while under pressure to lift conditions at home.”But there’s a caveat. The improvement probably has more to do with all that stimulus cash than with any sudden increase in business confidence. And it’s unclear how long the cash can keep flowing.More: As unlikely as it sounds, some business leaders and intellectuals in China see President Trump — one of Beijing’s toughest critics — as a kind of savior for the nation. As a lawmaker, Mick Mulvaney tried to abolish the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. And when the Trump administration made him its acting director, he steadily undercut it from within, Nick Confessore reports in the NYT Magazine.• “When Mulvaney took over, the fledgling C.F.P.B. was perhaps Washington’s most feared financial regulator: It announced dozens of cases annually against abusive debt collectors, sloppy credit agencies and predatory lenders.”• “What he left behind is an agency whose very mission is now a matter of bitter dispute. ‘The bureau was constructed really deliberately to protect ordinary people,’ says Lisa Donner, the head of Americans for Financial Reform. “He’s taken it apart — dismantled it, piece by piece.’ ”• “Some career employees saw a kind of strategic ambiguity at work, designed to muddle decision-making and insulate Mulvaney as he neutered the agency’s enforcement work.”• The deconstruction “offers a case study in the Trump administration’s approach to transforming Washington, one in which strategic neglect and bureaucratic self-sabotage create versions of agencies that seem to run contrary to their basic premises.”• This “wasn’t just one of the Trump era’s most emblematic assaults on the so-called administrative state,” Mr. Confessore writes. It was “also, in part, an audition” to become the White House chief of staff.Robert Jackson Jr., the S.E.C.’s only Democratic commissioner, is expected to step down later this year.Ulrich Spiesshofer abruptly stepped down as C.E.O. of ABB after facing pressure from activist investors. He will be replaced in the interim by Peter Voser, the company’s chairman.Nissan has reportedly abolished its “office of the C.E.O.,” a group of executives who worked for the chief executive.Deals• James Murdoch reportedly plans to invest about $1 billion into new media companies after his family sold the bulk of its media empire to Walt Disney. (FT)• Commerzbank is said to have been approached by the Dutch lender ING about a potential merger before it began deal talks with Deutsche Bank. (FT)• Expedia Group agreed to buy Liberty Expedia Holdings for $2.6 billion in stock to simplify its ownership structure. (Bloomberg)• KKR has profited handsomely by investing in Marshall Wace, the big British hedge fund. (Bloomberg)• Netflix says it has “no big need” for mergers. (Business Insider)Politics and policy• Democratic presidential contenders are spending their fund-raising cash on digital ads, huge rallies and unexpectedly large staffs. (NYT)• And House Democratic freshmen have maintained a torrid fund-raising pace to hold onto their seats. (Politico)• UnitedHealth’s C.E.O., David Wichman, said yesterday that Medicare for all, as proposed by leading Democrats, would “destabilize the nation’s health system.” (CNBC)• Terry Gou, Foxconn’s founder, said a sea goddess has persuaded him to run for the presidency of Taiwan. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Here’s what the Brexit delay means for the forthcoming E.U. elections. (FT)• Brexit is proving bad for people’s mental health. (FT)Trade• The enforcement mechanism America wants in its proposed agreement with China could also be a powerful weapon for Beijing. (Bloomberg)• The U.S. and Japan will fast-track their trade talks, partly by narrowing the scope. (FT)Tech• Jack Dorsey of Twitter promised changes to clean up his social network. But can he do it? (Axios, Wired)• How Hulu’s ads could help it in the streaming wars. (NYT)• Microsoft turned down a facial-recognition contract with a California law enforcement agency over rights concerns. (Reuters)• Here’s an insightful — if extremely long — look at Facebook’s troubled 15 months. (Wired)• The NYT spent $60 on a facial recognition system to study crowds in a park. It worked scarily well. (NYT)Best of the rest• Donations for the restoration of Notre-Dame have surpassed 600 million euros, or about $675 million. (NYT)• Researchers at the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Economic Analysis want to measure how wealth is shared across America. (WSJ)• Nissan and Renault have ousted Carlos Ghosn. But can they save their partnership? (NYT)• Richard Liu, the billionaire founder of the Chinese e-commerce giant JD.com, has been accused of rape in a lawsuit. (NYT)• The highest-paid financial professionals work in real estate investment trusts. (WSJ)• Employee wellness programs do little good. (NYT)• What it was like for a Lehman Brothers veteran to watch “The Lehman Trilogy.” (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Aramco, Saudi Arabia’s giant oil company, announced yesterday that it had bought 70 percent of the kingdom’s state-controlled petrochemical company, Sabic, for $69.1 billion.This is an alternative to an Aramco I.P.O. The deal for a majority stake in Sabic will provide a windfall for its majority owner: Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund. Aramco’s postponed plan to sell some of itself on a public stock market would have accomplished something similar.Saudi Arabia now has the money it wanted to modernize its economy. The kingdom’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, hopes to fund a campaign to wean Saudi Arabia off oil, by investing in new technology and clean energy. Aramco has now given his government the billions required to do so.And banks still get a gusher of fees. Financial firms that had worked on an Aramco I.P.O. pivoted to advisory roles on the Sabic deal, and many will arrange what’s expected to be a huge bond sale to help finance the transaction.Expect a peek into Aramco’s books. As part of a bond offering, the oil company will have to disclose its financial operations to potential investors. It’s unclear how much it will reveal, but any look at its huge oil reserves is sure to be of interest.The planemaker explained yesterday what it plans to do to upgrade its 737 Max 8 planes, after two fatal crashes in recent months raised global concerns about its safety.Pilots will have more control to override anti-stall software and new alerts, the company said at an event at its factory in Renton, Wash. They will also receive additional training.Boeing defended its Max 8 design process. “In general the process has worked and continues to work, and we see no reason to overhaul the process,” an unnamed Boeing official told the media. (A spokesman later told the WaPo that the comment referred to the plane’s development process, not its safety certifications.)Senators raised questions about safety checks for the Max 8 at a hearing yesterday, pressing federal regulators on all aspects of the process:• The transportation secretary, Elaine Chao, called the current situation “troubling.”• The acting F.A.A. chief, Daniel Elwell, said delegating authority was crucial. Otherwise, he added, the agency needed an extra 10,000 employees and $1.8 billion to oversee safety certification.• The Transportation Department’s inspector general, Calvin Scovel, said his office would conduct an audit into the F.A.A.’s certification of the Max 8.But lawmakers remain skeptical about the regulatory process. “The F.A.A. decided to do safety on the cheap, which is neither cheap nor safe,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said.American and Chinese officials continued to piece together a trade deal during talks in Beijing this week, but progress remains relatively slow.“We have moved forward in all areas,” one unidentified senior U.S. administration official told Reuters. The source said that in particular progress has been made on the practice of forced transfer of American technology to Chinese companies, a central issue for the Trump administration.But “we aren’t yet where we want to be,” the official conceded. The FT adds that “even agreement in less controversial areas — such as increased purchases of U.S. exports and improved market access for foreign investors — is proving difficult to pin down.”Senior U.S. officials arrive in Beijing today to continue the talks. Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will seek to make more progress. Next week, Vice Premier Liu He of China will head to Washington.The timing of a deal looks increasingly uncertain. “It could go to May, June, no one knows. It could happen in April, we don’t know,” a U.S. official told Reuters.More: Senate Republicans warned President Trump that his tariffs could plunge the U.S. into a recession ahead of the 2020 election.In a last-ditch effort to gain support for her Brexit plan, Prime Minister Theresa May yesterday offered to resign as long as her agreement is approved, Stephen Castle of the NYT writes.Her offer came as Parliament tried to sideline her by coming up with its own plan for Britain’s exit from the E.U. “But when lawmakers held a series of nonbinding votes on Wednesday night on eight different options for Britain’s future relationship with the E.U., none mustered a majority,” Mr. Castle writes.“If Mrs. May’s plan is approved, the battle over the details of Brexit will be fought first in a leadership struggle in the Conservative Party and then by all the other parties and factions that have scrapped with one another throughout the last two years.”But while her deal is gaining some support, many lawmakers are still holding out. Mrs. May will need to win the support of about 70 lawmakers who have already voted against the agreement — twice. Mr. Castle writes that it is “a very tall order.”More: The fund manager Mark Mobius said that the state of Britain’s debt and currency make it look “like an emerging market now.”Behind the Trump administration’s decision this week to seek a complete rejection of the Affordable Care Act was a political wager: Can President Trump appease supporters by upholding a 2016 campaign pledge?Mr. Trump made his decision on Monday after a heated debate in the White House, the NYT reports. Egging on the president were the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, and a top policy aide, Joe Grogan. Opposing the move were the White House counsel, Pat Cipollone; the secretary of health and human services, Alex Azar; and the attorney general, Bill Barr.The argument for taking on Obamacare, according to the NYT: “Mr. Trump has declared that he has kept his promises, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Grogan argued, and as a candidate he campaigned on repealing the health law. His base of voters would love it.”Republican lawmakers are worried. They lost control of the House last year largely because of voter concerns about health care. “We need a plan, and right now we don’t have one,” one unnamed Republican senator told Politico.Others are betting against Mr. Trump. Legal scholars think that Chief Justice John Roberts would again defend the law if the matter heads to the Supreme Court. And recent polls show that independent voters don’t approve of Mr. Trump’s handling of health care.More health care news: A federal judge blocked Kentucky and Arkansas from imposing work requirements on Medicaid, a blow to Republican efforts to reshape the program. A British review of Huawei found “significant” security problems with the Chinese company’s telecommunications equipment, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.There are “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes, according to the report, which was released this morning. They could be exploited by governments or independent hackers, creating a risk to national security.The report did not call for an outright ban of Huawei equipment, and “described a company with poor engineering practices and problems stemming from those engineering flaws, more than one operating at the orders of Chinese authorities,” Mr. Satariano writes. The findings were endorsed by Britain’s top cybersecurity agency.The conclusions buttress the Trump administration’s argument that Huawei is a grave risk to national security. Yet allies have resisted that push.They still want to manage the risks of using Huawei hardware rather than blocking it outright, to avoid losing momentum in building new high-speed wireless data networks. Earlier this year, the head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said that a complete ban wasn’t necessary.Investors increasingly think that as the global economy slows down, the Fed will have to cut interest rates. Officials at the central bank say that’s not in the cards — at least, not yet, Nick Timiraos of the WSJ reports.• The most recent sign of a rate cut, according to some investors, was last week’s yield-curve inversion. That was when yields on long-term Treasury notes fell below those of short-term ones, which is often interpreted as a harbinger of recession.• But some Fed officials urge patience. “I’d need to see an inversion of some magnitude and/or some duration, and right now we don’t have either,” Bob Kaplan, the president of the Dallas Fed, told the WSJ.• “If you see an inversion that goes on for several months … that’s a different kettle of fish,” he added.• The San Francisco Fed president, Mary Daly, said in a speech earlier this week that she’s “not freaked out” by the yield curve, and “hopefully businesses and market participants won’t freak out” either.More: The European Central Bank is considering how to help the continent’s banks as interest rates look to remain subzero. Swedbank fired Birgitte Bonneson as its C.E.O. today amid allegations that the Swedish lender was involved in Russian money-laundering.Chris Schaepe was ousted from Lightspeed Venture Partners after telling the firm he had hired the consultant at the heart of the college admissions scandal, though he has not been charged.Tim Throsby will step down as the head of Barclays’ investment bank.JPMorgan Chase reportedly plans to lay off hundreds of workers in its asset-management and wealth divisions.Deals• The pending I.P.O.s of Lyft and Pinterest highlight the debate over dual-class shares that let founders control companies with relatively small stock holdings. (DealBook)• Pimco and Elliott Management are reportedly pitching California lawmakers on a restructuring plan for PG&E, the bankrupt utility. (Bloomberg)• Commerzbank employees are reportedly gearing up to oppose a merger with Deutsche Bank. (Bloomberg)• Casper, the mattress company, raised $100 million from Target and other investors at a valuation of $1.1 billion. (Bloomberg)• Bustle Digital, which owns Gawker, agreed to buy The Outline, a struggling online publisher. (Recode)Politics and policy• President Trump is getting exactly what he wants from the U.S. economy — just as economic forecasters are predicting a slowdown. (NYT)• The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether to curb the power of administrative agencies like the Department of Veterans Affairs. (NYT)• Stephen Moore, the economic commentator whom Mr. Trump plans to nominate to the Fed, owes $75,000 in unpaid federal taxes and penalties. (NYT)• The House Oversight and Reform Committee is seeking 10 years’ worth of Mr. Trump’s financial records from an accounting firm. (Politico)• The Trump administration has reportedly strengthened its support for Israel in part because the shale boom has made the U.S. less dependent on oil imports. (FT)Tech• Facebook will ban white nationalist content from its platforms. Related: why video games are fertile ground for white nationalist recruitment. (NYT, NYT Op-Ed)• More on Facebook: Here’s a peek inside the growth machine that gave it more than a billion users. (FT)• Microsoft seized 99 websites that it said were used by Iranian hackers to try to steal sensitive information from people in Washington. (NYT)• President Trump met with Sundar Pichai of Google yesterday, and tweeted that the C.E.O. is “totally committed to the U.S. Military, not the Chinese Military.” (WSJ)• Flaws in Bitcoin may mean that it never bounces back to its heights. (Economist)• Millennials might not be giving up on car ownership after all. (Bloomberg Opinion)Best of the rest• A newly formed Nissan committee recommended overhauling the company’s board in order to move past the arrest of its former chairman, Carlos Ghosn. (NYT)• A New Jersey jury unanimously cleared Johnson & Johnson in the latest trial over whether its talc products caused a consumer’s cancer. (NYT)• But a California jury awarded $80.3 million in damages to a man who it decided had contracted cancer from exposure to Bayer’s Roundup weedkiller. (WSJ)• Bill McGlashan, who was ousted from TPG over the college admission scandal, argued yesterday that he hadn’t actually done anything illegal — yet. (Recode)• The Chinese delivery company Meituan is so cheap, it’s changing how people eat. (Bloomberg Businessweek)• How a TripAdvisor worker helped hunt down a prolific robocaller. (Wired)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Aviation regulators will testify before Senate subcommittees today on the crashes of two Boeing 737 Max 8 Jets, while Boeing meets with airline executives to update them on a fix for the software thought to be responsible for the accidents.The F.A.A.’s acting chief will defend the agency’s practice of delegating some plane safety checks to Boeing as “critical” to the success of the certification process. The official, Daniel Elwell, will argue that the process for the Max 8 was “detailed and thorough.”Senators are expected to ask about long-running doubts about the process. The NYT reports that F.A.A. employees and a Transportation Department watchdog worried over the years that the agency had “too close a relationship” with Boeing officials. Lawmakers will also ask why an update to the jet’s anti-stall software is still not ready.Boeing’s response to the crisis is also being questioned, particularly since its C.E.O., Dennis Muilenburg, has largely remained silent. “Their comments have been very engineering-esque,” Richard Levick, a communications expert, told the NYT. (The company’s public response has become more assertive since hiring the crisis communications firm Sard Verbinnen.)The company will meet today with 200 pilots and airline representatives at the factory where the Max 8 is made. It’s expected to offer some updates on the anti-stall software.More Boeing news: A Max 8 made an emergency landing in Orlando yesterday, though the incident is not thought to be connected to malfunctions that may have led to the two recent crashes.The European Parliament voted yesterday to pass a new copyright law requiring technology platforms to sign licensing agreements with musicians, authors and news publishers in order to post their work online, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.“The new law is meant to force tech firms to aggressively remove unlicensed copyrighted material from their websites proactively, rather than waiting for complaints to come in before acting,” Mr. Satariano writes.The policy is deeply divisive. Digital rights activists and the tech industry say it could result in censorship. Media organizations say it should protect Europe’s creative industries and ensure companies pay for content they share online.Some digital business models could be affected, because website owners will take on more responsibility for what ends up on their platforms. Sites may find the law too expensive or cumbersome to police: Even Google shuttered its News service, which would require licenses from publishers under the new rules, when a similar initiative was introduced in Spain.Smaller organizations may be hit hardest. These websites contend that giant tech platforms already have the resources to comply with the law, Mr. Satariano writes.Purdue Pharma, the drug maker behind OxyContin, said yesterday that it will settle a lawsuit by Oklahoma’s attorney general over its role in the opioid crisis, Jan Hoffman of the NYT reports.Purdue and its owners will pay $270 million, far more than they have paid in previous settlements. The payout helps Purdue avoid a televised trial that was scheduled to begin on May 28.But many more legal battles await. A federal judge in Cleveland alone is overseeing a consolidated collection of 1,600 lawsuits, and 35 other states have sued Purdue as well.The settlement raises questions about a Purdue bankruptcy. The company has contemplated filing for Chapter 11 protection to help contain the cost of defending or settling its legal fights. In bankruptcy, lawsuit claimants would most likely get only a fraction of any court-determined payout.Chapter 11 weighed heavily in the Oklahoma case. The state made a bird-in-the-hand decision, and other plaintiffs may need to make a similar choice. “The concern is that counties and states may settle on the cheap early to avoid getting little to nothing later on,” Elizabeth Chamblee Burch, a law professor at the University of Georgia, told the NYT.New data about Wall Street compensation shows that the financial sector’s huge pay has widened the national disparity between white men and women and people of color, according to a new report from the Institute for Policy Studies, a liberal think tank.New York City’s financial sector bonus pool fell last year by 14 percent from the previous year, to $27.5 billion. But that is still three times bigger than the combined annual earnings of all U.S. full-time minimum-wage workers.A majority of financial workers are white men, especially at the top ranks, according to the institute. No less than 68 percent of senior managers at the five largest U.S. investment banks are white men.But they make up just 37 percent of America’s minimum-wage workers, who have full- or part-time jobs that pay $7.25 an hour. “Due to Washington inaction, the federal minimum wage continues to be a poverty wage, while the reckless bonus culture is alive and well on Wall Street,” the report concludes.As at least 80 patent fights between Apple and Qualcomm trickle through courts around the world, both companies scored victories yesterday, the WSJ reports.Some iPhones now face a U.S. import ban after an International Trade Commission judge issued an initial ruling yesterday finding that Apple had infringed a Qualcomm patent.But Apple scored a bigger victory when another I.T.C. judge ruled that the phone maker had not infringed a Qualcomm patent relating to power efficiency in mobile phones. That overturned a previous court finding.“Qualcomm is hoping a victory, particularly an import ban, could give it greater leverage in technology licensing negotiations,” Bloomberg explains. “Qualcomm says it’s due billions of dollars in unpaid royalties on the iPhone.”“Apple denied infringing any of the patents in the two cases and claimed Qualcomm is trying to shut its only U.S.-based competitor out of the market, something Apple argues will hinder the development of the fifth generation of mobile communications,” Bloomberg adds.Corporate America set a record for stock repurchases last year, even as lawmakers proposed curtailing the practice.Companies bought back $806.4 billion worth of their own shares, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices, with $223 billion of that coming in the fourth quarter alone. The previous high was $589.1 billion, set in 2007.The biggest buyer was Apple, which repurchased $101 billion of its stock.The buyback boom was fueled by the Trump tax cuts, with companies preferring to use their savings to repurchase shares and bolster their stock prices, rather than issue dividends or make new investments.And it came despite opposition from Congress, with lawmakers from Senator Bernie Sanders to Senator Marco Rubio arguing in favor of limits on the practice.But a repeat is unlikely this year, as the sugar rush from the tax cuts wears off.In 2013, Google started an ambitious and flashy effort to create robots under the control of Andy Rubin, who later left the company amid accusations of sexual harassment. Now, the company has overhauled the effort with more modest goals — but subtly advanced technology, Cade Metz of the NYT reports.Google’s first robot push was all about advanced machines, and was built on a series of acquisitions. Some of the companies that Google bought relied on humanoid robots, but the tech giant failed to capitalize on them, and sold off or shut down the companies over time.Now the focus is on making robots smarter by injecting them with machine-learning software. “The company is developing ways for these robots to learn skills on their own, like sorting through a bin of unfamiliar objects or navigating a warehouse filled with unexpected obstacles,” Mr. Metz writes.“Google is tight-lipped about how it hopes to deploy the technologies it is working on,” Mr. Metz adds. That’s probably because most researchers see robots being used in warehouses and distribution centers around the world, raising questions about how automation will erode jobs.DealBook exclusive: The Brunswick Group plans to announce this morning that it has hired Michael O’Looney, most recently head of communications at Elliott Management, as a partner in New York and Courtney Chiang Dorman, who previously was the C.O.O. of the law firm Wilson Sonsini, as a partner in San Francisco.JC Penney hired Bill Wafford, most recently the chief financial officer of The Vitamin Shoppe, as its C.F.O.Simon Sutton is reportedly stepping down as HBO’s chief revenue officer.Deals• Lyft reportedly plans to raise the price range of its I.P.O. amid strong investor demand. (WSJ)• Renault reportedly plans to restart merger talks with Nissan and pursue a takeover of Fiat Chrysler. (FT)• Centene has agreed to buy WellCare, a managed-care rival, for $17.3 billion, including the assumption of debt. (PR Newswire)• The Chinese gaming company that owns Grindr reportedly plans to sell the dating app after the U.S. national security panel Cfius raised concerns about its ownership. (Reuters)• Spotify agreed to buy Parcast, a producer of crime and mystery podcasts. (NYT)Politics and policy• Stephen Moore, the economic commentator whom President Trump plans to nominate as a Fed governor, said he’s no “sycophant” for the president. (NYT)• Democrats see political opportunity as Mr. Trump moves to abolish the Affordable Care Act. Here’s what would happen if the Obama health care law is struck down. (NYT)• The House failed to override Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency over a border wall. (NYT)• The Green New Deal failed in a Republican-led vote in the Senate yesterday, as Democrats voted “present.” (Axios)• The Justice Department said that it plans to release a version of the Mueller report to Congress and the public within weeks. (WSJ)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal is slowly gaining support among critics in her Conservative Party — but some want her resignation in exchange for their votes. (Bloomberg)• The E.U. has reportedly suggested that if Britain asks for a long delay to Brexit, its departure could be pushed back until March 31, 2020. (Guardian)• More than half of British business leaders want a deal where Britain is closely aligned to the E.U.’s single market for goods and services. (FT)Trade• The U.S. is pressing Canada and Mexico to agree to permanent limits on the amount of steel and aluminum they export to America each year. (NYT)• China’s humiliation in the 1800s feeds into its reluctance to let the U.S. impose tariffs if Beijing fails to keep its promises on trade. (NYT)Tech• Sundar Pichai, Google’s C.E.O., will reportedly meet with the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff today to discuss the tech giant’s A.I. work in China. (Bloomberg)• A judge will hear arguments on April 4 on whether Elon Musk should be found in contempt of court. (Business Insider)• Three A.I. pioneers have won the Turing award, considered the Nobel of computing, for their work in developing artificial neural networks. (NYT)• Google is reportedly funding “dozens” of new local news websites around the U.S. (Axios)• Palantir reportedly won a Pentagon contract to build a battlefield intelligence system. (WaPo)Best of the rest• Wall Street firms, including JPMorgan Chase and Blackstone, have added #MeToo keywords like “harassment” to risk factors in their annual reports. (Business Insider)• Nissan reportedly paid at least $601,000 in Stanford tuition fees for Carlos Ghosn’s children. (Bloomberg)• Citigroup is being sued for age discrimination by a 56-year-old banker, who claims he was told “you are old and set in your ways” before being dismissed. (Bloomberg)• Lloyd’s of London announced measures to combat sexual harassment at the insurance brokerage, including lifetime bans for offenders. (Bloomberg)• Vice President Mike Pence said that the Trump administration wants NASA to put astronauts back on the moon by 2024 “by any means necessary.” (Verge)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Daisuke WakabayashiEven by the nightmarish standards of the empire she oversees, Susan Wojcicki, the chief executive officer of YouTube, has had a dreadful start to 2019. During a single week in February, BuzzFeed reported that her company was running advertisements alongside anti-vaccine content; there was a nationwide panic over the platform abetting child suicide; and a viral video showed how pedophiles were flourishing on the site.And then there was the bestiality.Thumbnail images implying human-animal sex were discovered next to children’s videos, and after an uproar, Ms. Wojcicki was obliged to call a staff meeting to address it. The topic, she allowed during a recent interview, was one “I never thought I would be handling.”Ms. Wojcicki, 50, was sitting in a conference room at YouTube headquarters in suburban San Bruno, Calif., wearing jeans, a cardigan and an expression of pure stoicism. In an industry that celebrates eccentricity, Ms. Wojcicki presents as exceedingly normal, bordering on boring, even as elements of her digital realm burst into the real world in forms that are increasingly grotesque and sometimes dangerous.Several months earlier, not far from where we sat, Ms. Wojcicki had spent 40 minutes hiding from an active shooter: a YouTube user furious about new ad standards, who shot three employees before taking her own life. Ms. Wojcicki said she knew that her policy changes could “upset some people,” but “seeing that someone could be so angry that they would come here is really hard.”Her tenure as C.E.O. wasn’t supposed to be dominated by pedophilia and attempted mass murder. When she got the job, in 2014, Ms. Wojcicki was hailed straightforwardly as the most powerful woman in advertising, someone who’d helped turn on the cash spigots in her time at Google and would presumably repeat the trick at YouTube. In the five years since, Ms. Wojcicki has introduced new forms of ads as well as subscription offerings for music, original content and the cord-cutting service YouTube TV. But somewhere along the line, her job became less about growth and more about toxic containment.Political figures and tech luminaries alike are castigating YouTube for not doing enough to rein in the crooks, crackpots, racists, Russian agents and charlatans who call the platform home. New horrors are ceaseless — last month, just before a terrorist in New Zealand massacred 50 people, he urged people to subscribe to a popular YouTuber — and reinforce the view that the platform is corroding society.Remarkably, for a person who oversees a website with more daily visitors than Facebook, Ms. Wojcicki has managed to keep a low profile and avoid much of the blame. Last year, when other social media executives were summoned to Congress for a scolding, she was not invited. She stayed home and campaigned against a new European Union law that could hold services like YouTube liable if their users upload copyrighted content.While Mark Zuckerberg, Sheryl Sandberg, Jack Dorsey and others have gotten their share of public scrutiny, Ms. Wojcicki largely has not. I wanted to get a better sense of what she was like as a C.E.O., how she was trying to tame YouTube’s hydra of issues and whether there was any sense of urgency within YouTube. And so over the last several months, I spoke to more than a dozen current and former YouTube and Google employees and interviewed Ms. Wojcicki three times.What I found was both reassuring and alarming. At the top of the world’s largest and most volatile video platform is a calm, levelheaded person. But her deliberate style may be at odds with the pace and scale of horrors and just plain stupidity that relentlessly arises on YouTube.On April 2, Bloomberg News published an article that painted a damning portrait of her and other YouTube brass — so focused on maximizing usage statistics that they looked the other way when employees raised concerns about the company’s recommendation system. Ms. Wojcicki seemed taken aback. In an April 7 interview, she said YouTube has not ignored its problem with hosting extreme and conspiracy-minded content. She said it was a large and complex issue and the company was starting to make a dent. She wasn’t defensive, but defiant and — most surprising for someone usually so measured — a little angry.“It’s not like there is one lever we can pull and say, ‘Hey, let’s make all these changes,’ and everything would be solved,” Ms. Wojcicki said. “That’s not how it works.”At one policy review meeting I observed in San Bruno, her methodical approach was on full display. In a narrow conference room lined with whiteboards and TV screens, she sat quietly with a dozen YouTube employees, watching a video called “Condom Challenge,” in which water-filled prophylactics fell onto people’s heads in extreme slow motion. Rather than bursting, the condoms inverted and engulfed their faces like a fishbowl. Ms. Wojcicki pondered whether the clip, which has nearly 15 million views, was merely juvenile or crossed the line to life-threatening. Like so much on YouTube, such “challenges” — when creators perform stunts and call out a friend to do the same — often begin as harmless memes, but morph into something more problematic.Ms. Wojcicki and her staff considered their thicket of policies. A “dangerous” (risk of bodily harm) activity could stay on YouTube as long as no minors were involved. But “ultrahazardous” (risk of death) challenges would be removed. One staffer ventured that the condom challenge seemed to belong in the former category. Ms. Wojcicki disagreed.“There’s no reason we want people putting any kind of plastic over their head,” she said, peering over the screen of her open laptop. But the video stayed up. For every minute Ms. Wojcicki spent discussing it, users uploaded to the site an additional 500 hours of footage.Unlike many of her tech-C.E.O. peers, Ms. Wojcicki (pronounced “Woe-jisky”) does not have a tidy origin story to tell reporters; there was no aha! moment in a dorm room that has been polished and embellished over the years. She didn’t drop out of Harvard; she graduated. But in 1998, Ms. Wojcicki and her husband rented part of their Menlo Park, Calif., home for $1,700 a month to a pair of Stanford University graduate students named Larry Page and Sergey Brin. They had just started a search engine called Google.Ms. Wojcicki was working for Intel at the time, and one day, she wasn’t able to find an important piece of information because Google was down. She realized that she had become dependent on “the site developed by those two dudes in my garage.” Ms. Wojcicki joined Google as its 16th employee and its first marketing manager.With a baby on the way, she was going to work for a company with no revenue. She helped turn Google into a juggernaut, developing its signature advertising product, AdWords, and overseeing its first foray into content sharing, called Google Video. In 2006, swallowing her pride, she encouraged Google to acquire a rival service called YouTube for $1.65 billion. (Morgan Stanley recently estimated that the division is now worth $160 billion.)Over the years, Ms. Wojcicki built a personal fortune estimated in the hundreds of millions, and she remains a close confidant of Mr. Page, who is now the chief executive of Google’s parent, Alphabet. One former executive told me, “Susan is the first cousin of the Google royal family.”Ms. Wojcicki’s biological family is remarkably accomplished. She is the oldest of three sisters; the middle one, Janet, is an anthropologist, epidemiologist and former Fulbright scholar; and the youngest, Anne, co-founded 23andMe, the DNA testing company. (Anne was also married to Mr. Brin until 2015.)Being part of a high-profile clan can cause confusion. Chris Dale, a YouTube spokesman, once learned that People magazine planned to run a story that Susan Wojcicki was dating Alex Rodriguez, the former New York Yankees slugger. Mr. Dale recalls sheepishly calling his boss — who had been married for more than 20 years — in the middle of a parent-teacher meeting to ask if she was having an affair. She was not. Anne, not Susan, had been seeing Mr. Rodriguez.Since taking over YouTube, fame has been something Ms. Wojcicki has tried to avoid. But she is warm and approachable in person, and for one recent interview, she arrived at the office dressed like any other Google employee, with black cowboy boots and a backpack slung over one shoulder, ready to discuss her track record. “One way I think about some of the decisions is putting myself in the future and thinking: in five or 10 years, what will they say?” Ms. Wojcicki said. “If someone were to look back on the decisions that we’re making, would they feel we were on the right side of history? Would I feel proud? Will my children feel like I made good decisions?”Whether vacuous or violent, YouTube troubles arise at a dumbfounding pace. Last year, YouTube banned both the “Tide Pod” challenge, which involved biting into laundry detergent pods, and “No lackin” videos, in which participants aim guns at each other. Confronted by one crisis after another, Ms. Wojcicki has introduced policies to curb the spread of problematic videos and raised the bar on which videos can carry advertising. The challenge is cleaning up the mess while keeping her various constituencies — users, creators, advertisers, parents, lawmakers — happy, or at least not irate.When she became C.E.O., Ms. Wojcicki inherited an audacious goal: Get users to watch more than one billion hours of videos every day, a tenfold increase from 2012. She kept the target in place and made some changes at the margins. In 2016, YouTube scaled back recommendations of sensational and clickbait-y videos, because it found users were drawn to watching them but later regretted it — a lot like eating junk food.Two of Ms. Wojcicki’s inflection points came in spring 2017. That March, major advertisers, including AT&T and Johnson & Johnson, boycotted the service after reports that their messages appeared on offensive content. Then, in June, three men drove a van into pedestrians on London Bridge. Media reports said one of the attackers had watched the inflammatory YouTube sermons of an Islamic cleric. Ms. Wojcicki said the attack clarified for her that her company could no longer keep content at arm’s length and hide behind a broadly articulated set of community guidelines.“We needed to have a deeper understanding of the issues, we needed to have much deeper enforcement and we needed to have much more precision in our policies,” Ms. Wojcicki said. In the months that followed, she added thousands of human reviewers to examine controversial videos and created an “intelligence desk” to identify percolating issues on the internet more quickly. Her staff also deployed Google’s machine-learning systems to flag extremist content.These days, YouTube says it is pursuing what the company calls “responsible growth.” When asked what that means, Ms. Wojcicki said an easy explanation was a challenge.To boil it down: YouTube wants to remove the content that violates its policies more quickly and effectively; promote better, more authoritative material and limit the spread of videos that are potentially harmful but do not break the rules.Ms. Wojcicki said the third category, so-called borderline content, has been the most challenging. Earlier this year, the company announced that it was changing its algorithm to stop recommending material like conspiracy videos that can become a gateway to the unsavory.Starting with the United States, YouTube said it would employ human raters from across the country to evaluate certain content. Those judgments will help inform what the recommendation engine flags. (Clearly, the algorithms need attention. This week, they mistakenly added information about the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks to footage of the Notre Dame fire.) YouTube said it plans to introduce the change to another 20 countries this year, deploying raters in each market to understand the preferences of local users.When asked why she didn’t act sooner, Ms. Wojcicki said she wished she had. “If I were to go back in time, I certainly would have accelerated all of these features, and I would have accelerated all of this work because now I’ve realized how important it is,” she said. “I realized at the time, too. We always thought it was important, but I can’t emphasize the number of people and systems that it is taking for us to implement it.”At the YouTube policy meeting I observed, Ms. Wojcicki asked 37 questions in one hour. They were short. And direct. In one exchange, a YouTube staffer (I agreed to not use their names) briefed her on an uptick in users uploading soft-core pornography.Ms. Wojcicki: “You feel good about the changes we made, and that that group has been managed?”Staffer: “Yes. I mean, they’ll keep evolving.”Ms. Wojcicki: “How did we find it?”The staffer described an anomaly-detection system.Ms. Wojcicki: “And then you terminated those accounts?”Staffer: “That’s right.”YouTube’s mammoth video corpus and flow of new kinds of content present a challenge that simply never ends. Another test is always around the corner, whether it be the 2020 presidential elections or A.I.-generated “deepfake” technology. In the meantime, it’s hard to declare progress, much less victory, when the failures are so notable.Ms. Wojcicki said that seeing harmful videos and the hateful behavior of people online is the worst part of her job. “It’s probably not even rewarding, because everybody is angry at you all the time,” she said. “But I think it’s probably some of the most important work that I will do in my career, because it’s setting a standard of responsibility for the internet.”She has become a pariah among a vocal minority of YouTube enthusiasts who think she has gone too far to alter what made YouTube popular in the first place. When Ms. Wojcicki started her own YouTube channel in fall 2017, her videos were overrun by negative comments, including anti-Semitic remarks and insults about her looks and manner of speaking. Her first post — a slick montage with YouTube stars offering advice on making videos — received five times as many thumbs-down votes as thumbs-up. When YouTube published a year-in-review compilation, which excluded reference to its troubles, it became the most disliked video in the site’s history. Even Ms. Wojcicki’s kids, she said, told her that it was “cringey.”The growing backlash against YouTube has complicated some personal relationships. Marc Benioff, the chairman of Salesforce, said last year that social media was potentially as harmful as cigarettes and needed to be regulated. Ms. Wojcicki has been a Salesforce board director since 2014, and Mr. Benioff is a longtime acquaintance. For this article, YouTube arranged for an interview with Mr. Benioff to provide insight about her. But on the morning of a scheduled call, Mr. Benioff was feuding on Twitter with its C.E.O. about a proposed tax to pay for services for the homeless in San Francisco.He joined the call 40 minutes late, saying he only had five minutes to spare. When I asked how Ms. Wojcicki reacted to his comments about social media, Mr. Benioff became upset. He said he wasn’t “prepared to answer” the question and had expected to speak about her leadership style. Then he ended the call.In a written statement sent a week later, Mr. Benioff said: “We’re living in a crisis of trust, and as I’ve said before that if our industry doesn’t self-regulate, the government will do it for us. But I don’t think that reality fazes someone like Susan because she knows, no matter what, the power of trust and transparency far outweighs whatever regulation that may come our way.”The easiest way to judge a C.E.O.’s performance, of course, is to study their company’s financial results. In the case of YouTube, that’s a matter of guesswork. The company is a few layers deep within Alphabet and its financial results are not disclosed. YouTube reveals data points in drips and drabs, but the numbers are too absent of context to be of much use. On the last earnings call with analysts, for example, Google said that the number of YouTube channels with more than one million subscribers nearly doubled last year, and that the number of creators making more than $10,000 annually grew more than 40 percent. But investors do not know YouTube’s profit or costs, or how Ms. Wojcicki has affected them over time.From what we can glean, though, YouTube’s business appears to be thriving. Alphabet cited its “strong contribution” as a key factor for the company’s record profits in the fourth quarter. Analysts estimate that YouTube’s annual revenue has surpassed $15 billion and is growing at 30 to 40 percent a year.If building a business with Netflix-size revenue inside Alphabet wasn’t enough to gain Ms. Wojcicki job security from YouTube’s policing struggles, there’s also the Larry factor. She technically reports to Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief executive, but she answers to Mr. Page. She remains one of the few people at the company with “walk-in access” to the reclusive co-founder, one Google executive told me. “She is not going anywhere,” this person said.One reason Ms. Wojcicki defies easy characterization is that her core function keeps changing. Today, her job is to be something like the standards czar of an anarchic civilization. Before that, when YouTube started home-growing celebrity icons, she was a budding media mogul. But in whatever role YouTube has needed her to assume, Ms. Wojcicki has not lost sight of the skill she learned early on at Google: how to keep advertisers happy.Marc S. Pritchard, Procter & Gamble’s chief brand officer, who is responsible for one of the biggest advertising budgets in the world, said his company has had some rocky moments with YouTube in the last few years, and that Ms. Wojcicki has been a steadying presence.Like other major marketers, P.&G. stopped spending on YouTube in early 2017 when it found its advertisements running next to videos with violence, extreme language and other consumer-unfriendly qualities. When Mr. Pritchard called Ms. Wojcicki with the bad news, he said, the conversation was not contentious. She told him: “You’re an important partner. We’re going to work together to get this fixed.”Almost a year after P.&G. put its wallet away, the “Tide Pod challenge” started to spread across YouTube. Tide is one of P.&G.’s flagship brands, and Mr. Pritchard said that late one Friday night, Ms. Wojcicki called him with reassurances that her company was on top of the problem. She added a metaphor about the scale of the challenge: YouTube had started out as a small city, but it had grown into a metropolis.“I think you’ve grown well beyond a metropolis,” Mr. Pritchard recalled telling her. “You grew into a galaxy. That has implications beyond anything you would have ever known.” Within a few hours, the worst Tide Pod videos were scrubbed from YouTube, and the platform changed its algorithm so anyone searching for them would be shown a safety video.“No debate, just action,” said Mr. Pritchard. A few months later, P.&G. announced that it would resume advertising on YouTube.Over Presidents’ Day weekend, Ms. Wojcicki was traveling with her family when another ad disaster struck. A YouTuber named Matt Watson posted a video with the title “YouTube is Facilitating the Sexual Exploitation of Children, and It’s Being Monetized.” It demonstrated how pedophiles were coordinating their behavior on the site, including on some videos sponsored by big brands, and those companies started to pull their advertising.Ms. Wojcicki asked her staff to do a “content review” to remove any problematic videos and comments. She coordinated with senior executives and the “incident commander,” a rotating position she had created to ensure that every “escalation” — that’s corporate-speak for “a terrible thing found on our platform” — had a point person overseeing the response. Eventually, YouTube said it removed inappropriate comments from thousands of videos and would disable comments permanently on most content featuring children under 13.Ms. Wojcicki said while the situation was regrettable, it also demonstrated that some of YouTube’s new policies are helping. YouTube was able to turn off comments on millions of videos over a holiday weekend, something it would have struggled to do in the past.A month later, when YouTube’s human reviewers were overwhelmed by a deluge of videos of the mass shooting in New Zealand — at one point, footage of the shooting was being uploaded every second — Ms. Wojcicki said the company intentionally disabled search functions. It also bypassed human reviewers and let its computers immediately take down any videos that were automatically flagged.She said each horrible incident helps the company be better prepared for the next one. And there will always be a next one, as long as YouTube remains open to allowing anyone with an internet connection to upload a video.After a long conversation, Ms. Wojcicki became introspective. She said she joined Google because she wanted to do something meaningful with her life, and saw the company’s mission of helping people find the right information as inspiring. But now she recognizes that her ultimate legacy will be whether YouTube can get a handle on its problems.“I know we can do better, but we’re going to get there. We’ll get to a point where we have solved a lot of these issues, and I feel like we’ve already made significant progress,” she said. “I own this problem, and I’m going to fix it.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the nationality of a gunman suspected of killing 50 people in New Zealand. He is from Australia, not New Zealand.Advertisement"
0
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersPARIS — Notre-Dame de Paris cathedral went up in flames on Monday evening, a blaze that devastated the Parisian landmark, destroying its wooden-beamed roof and collapsing the iconic spire. It is a searing loss for Paris and France.President Emmanuel Macron has pledged to rebuild the gothic masterpiece, and already within the first 24 hours since the disaster, private companies and local authorities have stepped forward with large donations. Here are the main pledges made so far:LVMHFrench billionaire businessman Bernard Arnault's family and his LVMH luxury goods group said they would donate 200 million euros to help repair the cathedral KERINGFrancois Henri Pinault, who heads the Kering luxury goods company, pledged 100 million euros through his Artemis holdingL'OREALFrench luxury and cosmetics group L'Oreal, along with the Bettencourt Meyer family and the Bettencourt Schueller foundation, will donate 200 million euros in totalTOTAL:French oil company Total said it will donate 100 million eurosFIMALAC Marc Ladreit de Lacharriere, head of the group that runs ratings agency Fitch, pledged 10 million euros VINCIConstruction group Vinci called on all building companies in France to join forces to repair the cathedral in an ""industry-wide skills sponsorship drive""BOUYGUESMartin Bouygues and his brother Olivier, who oversee a telecoms to construction conglomerate, pledged to donate 10 million euros. Bouygues group separately said it was ready to join the ""skills sponsorship"" driveJCDECAUXFrench outdoor advertising group pledged 20 million eurosSOCIETE GENERALESociete Generate bank pledged 10 million euros CASINO The French retailer said its Franprix and Monoprix stores would implement price-rounding operations to support foundations helping with repairs APPLECEO Tim Cook said on Twitter Apple would donate an unspecified sum to rebuilding efforts CITY OF PARIS Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo said the city would donate 50 million eurosILE-DE-FRANCE AUTHORITYValerie Pecresse, head of the Ile de France regional authority that includes Paris, pledged 10 million eurosAUVERGNE-RHONE ALPES REGIONLocal government to donate 2 million eurosEUROPEAN CENTRAL BANKThe bank said it would donate 9 million eurosCAP GEMINIIT services group to donate 1 million euros (Reporting by Dominique Vidalon; Editing by Luke Baker and Peter Graff)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byExecutives have been burned by their previous dealings with big tech companies. But Apple’s promise of a billion devices worldwide was too good to pass up. Even for Rupert Murdoch.By Edmund LeeLike many other media executives, Pamela Wasserstein was wary of tech giants and their attempts to go into business with content creators.“There was great optimism around partnerships, and I think that optimism has largely cooled, and people are now more cautious,” said Ms. Wasserstein, the chief executive of New York Media, the publisher of New York magazine and web titles like The Cut and Vulture.But like others in her position at publishers like Condé Nast, Dow Jones and Meredith, she put caution aside and joined Apple’s media initiative, the recently unveiled Apple News Plus app, which promises to blast out content across more than a billion devices worldwide.The tech giant based the service on an app it acquired last year called Texture, which gave readers access to some 200 publications with a single subscription. The revamped and renamed version, introduced with much fanfare last week at the company’s headquarters in Cupertino, Calif., charges subscribers $9.99 a month ($12.99 in Canada) for content from more than 300 titles, including The New Yorker, Vanity Fair, Vogue, Time, The Atlantic and People, as well as The Los Angeles Times and The Wall Street Journal. (Also included: Airbnb Magazine, Birds & Blooms, Retro Gamer and Salt Water Sportsman, befitting the app’s conceit as an omnibus newsstand.)Weighing the pros and cons, Ms. Wasserstein concluded that Apple News Plus would allow her publications to reach “a new audience in an environment that feels right for us.”Going into business with a tech giant was a calculated risk. Like most publishers, New York Media had seen its revenue shrink in an internet environment where Google and Facebook scoop up advertising dollars and have great influence over what people read. (New York Media’s online sales have grown more recently.) There’s a sense among Manhattan’s media ranks that any deal with Silicon Valley amounts to a fool’s bargain.Now, by necessity, magazines, newspapers and websites have learned to be promiscuous tradesmen to stop relying on one revenue source. They have embraced new business lines like branded content, conferences and podcasts just to diversify and stay afloat.Ms. Wasserstein was among the publishers at the Steve Jobs Theater when Apple unveiled the service. On stage, Tim Cook, the chief executive, contrasted Apple’s editorial approach to the “very different choice” other companies have made. It was a notable remark, given the criticism of Facebook and Google over their role in spreading misinformation.Apple’s plan was something altogether different, Mr. Cook promised. “This is going to take Apple News to a whole new level,” he said. Cheers bounced around the room — half occupied by Apple employees — as glossy magazine covers skated across the giant screen at his back.The marketing event seems to have accomplished its goal. More than 200,000 people subscribed to Apple News Plus in its first 48 hours — more than Texture had amassed at its peak, according to two people with knowledge of the figures who asked not to be named to discuss confidential information. (Texture’s subscribers have not been counted toward Apple’s subscribers.)The New York Times and The Washington Post did not join the effort, despite intense lobbying from Apple. Mark Thompson, the chief executive of The Times, said the problem with the app, from his perspective, was how it “jumbled different news sources into these superficially attractive mixtures,” making it difficult for users to know which publication they’re consuming. A spokeswoman for The Post said that the paper’s “focus is on growing our own subscription base” and that it was not interested in offering its wares through another company.Some executives who said yes to the plan seemed less than sanguine, but they declined to comment publicly for fear of upsetting Apple or violating the ironclad nondisclosure agreements the news companies had signed.In addition to allowing their publications to be part of Apple’s big bundle, publishers have risked cannibalizing their own subscription efforts by signing on. At $9.99 a month, Apple News Plus is a bargain, especially for casual readers. The Journal, by contrast, charges a monthly fee of $39 for digital access. Online subscriptions to The New Yorker, Vanity Fair and Wired — all owned by Condé Nast — together cost more than $10 a month. The New Yorker by itself costs $7.50.The day after the splashy announcement, The New Yorker found itself on the defensive after a Reuters headline blared: “Is it time to dump your New Yorker subscription?” In reply, Michael Luo, the editor of The New Yorker’s website, sounded off in a 13-part tweetstorm advising readers not to dump the magazine. Only a portion of its archive would be available on the Apple service, he wrote, and readers could miss out on certain articles by Ronan Farrow, Jane Mayer and Doreen St. Félix, not to mention the weekly crossword.“The best way to read ALL that we do @newyorker every day and every week is to subscribe,” Mr. Luo tweeted.Patrick Soon-Shiong, the owner and publisher of The Los Angeles Times, seemed unworried about tying the paper’s fortunes to Apple, saying in an email that the service would “encourage more people to pay for quality content.”The Journal reported that, thanks to the deal with Apple, it would add 50 people to its newsroom. But the union that represents the paper’s employees noted the new job listings were open to contract workers.“It would be the first time that we’d see a move toward an unprotected work force,” Tim Martell, the union’s executive director, said. “We don’t like the uncertainty.”To abide by the union’s contract with The Journal, Mr. Martell added, contract workers in the newsroom would be allowed to work for a maximum of 12 months. That suggests the Journal sees these hires as a temporary assignment — a compromise approach — as it gauges the benefits and costs of the Apple partnership.The majority of Journal stories will appear on the service, but with only a three-day archive. Content for niche groups, such as CFO Journal, which is aimed at the financial community, and CMO Today, geared toward advertising professionals, will not be included.For Rupert Murdoch, the owner of The Journal since 2007, the partnership is a way for him to realize his long-held dream of turning the paper into something of interest to readers beyond Wall Street and corporate boardrooms.The mogul was the driving force behind the Apple deal, according to two executives close to Mr. Murdoch. He wants The Journal to include more general interest, sports and lifestyle coverage, and the partnership with Apple gives the paper a concrete reason to move beyond its core readership.Unswayed by sentiment, Mr. Murdoch, 88, recently sold off the bulk of his television and film properties as he refocused on the news business and reshaped his empire into an entity built to survive the final steps of the digital revolution. He was able to extract better terms from Apple than other publishers, the people close to him said, including the ability to exit on a time frame that would be more favorable to The Journal.Mr. Murdoch has worked with Apple in the past. In 2011, when tablets were supposedly going to save journalism, he poured millions into an iPad publication, The Daily, with the help of Apple’s chief executive, Steven P. Jobs. The effort failed to make its mark and was shut down after less than two years.Publications that originated at the now defunct Time Inc. — like Time, Sports Illustrated and Fortune — are also part of Apple News Plus. They were pushed into the arrangement as part of a deal struck by Meredith, the company that purchased them in 2017, according to two news executives familiar with the matter. Although Meredith sold Time and Fortune last year and is looking to move Sports Illustrated, the three publications appear to be locked in to Apple News Plus, at least for the time being. (Meredith and Apple declined to comment.)The economics of Apple’s venture will vary from title to title. After the company takes half the subscription price, its partners will split the rest. How much each media company receives is based on the amount of time readers devote to its content. That model mimics Spotify and Apple Music, which pay record labels based on how often their tracks are streamed.The visibility of individual articles will depend on Apple’s algorithm, which takes into account a user’s preference — you can “follow” a particular magazine or topic — as well as the judgments of Lauren Kern, the editor in chief of Apple News, and her team.In contrast with Google and Facebook, Apple has promoted the human touch. The presence of Ms. Kern, a former editor at New York magazine, has to some degree assuaged publishers’ fears of algorithmic tyranny.“Lauren being there gives me confidence, but it’s not that she knows who we are, but that she knows what great content is,” said Ms. Wasserstein, of New York Media.Although Ms. Kern provides a link between the news media and Silicon Valley, Apple will also have to get used to the journalists now associated with its team. The New Yorker weighed in on the Cupertino event with a satirical story headlined “Tim Cook’s Big Apple Circus.”Apple got another taste of what it has signed up for after it hosted a private party last week for its new partners at the company’s Lower Manhattan loft. In its coverage of the event, Vanity Fair, one of those partners, included a quote from an unnamed partygoer who summed up the mood of the room and, perhaps, the industry at large.The quote became the story’s headline: “Are we at a party, or a wake?”Edmund Lee covers the media industry as it grapples with changes from Silicon Valley. Before joining The Times he was the managing editor at Vox Media’s Recode.  @edmundlee Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byTim Cook keeps taking on Facebook, but Facebook’s stock keeps rising. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. The ongoing tension between Apple and Facebook flared again this week, causing a dramatic hubbub in the tech industry. I’d argue it was a nothing burger. Not because it was unimportant, but because it’s clear that despite persistent evidence that our privacy is being violated, it might not matter. Basically, the two digital giants engaged in an esoteric tussle over how Facebook did an end run around Apple’s very strict rules about data use on its app platform in order to suck up more user data. Through an app intended for internal use, Facebook paid people — including teenagers — $20 a month to track everything they did online. Since Facebook had been warned about this kind of thing before, Apple — noting the move was in “clear breach of their agreement” — retaliated by cutting off the oxygen, and Facebook’s access to its own internal apps. It did not, as many suggested it should, shut off other popular consumer-facing offerings on the iPhone like Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp.Shall I explain more? No, I shall not, because the details hardly matter, except to note that what Facebook did is the equivalent of sneaking out of the house after the curfew your parents imposed after you last sneaked out of the house. To put it more plainly, it was obnoxious and squirrelly and just the kind of behavior that we all now assume the company is capable of. Which is to say, we don’t trust Facebook in any way when it comes to using and protecting the data we entrust to it.[Kara Swisher will answer your questions about this column on Twitter on Friday at 2 p.m. Eastern: @KaraSwisher.]And neither does Apple and its chief executive, Tim Cook. Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder and chief executive, is clearly getting on Mr. Cook’s last nerve. I feel a little responsible for the acrimony, since it was in an MSNBC interview I did with Mr. Cook in March that the older, more seasoned executive decided to go full-bore on the young, leadership-challenged one.At the time, Facebook was in the news for the rampant abuse of its platform by Russia, so I asked Mr. Cook about data abuse. He started by comparing Apple’s business model to one like Facebook’s: “The truth is, we could make a ton of money if we monetized our customer — if our customer was our product. We’ve elected not to do that.”Then I asked: What would he do to fix it if he were Mr. Zuckerberg? His devastating answer: “What would I do? I wouldn’t be in this situation.”Ouch. In Silicon Valley terms that response was akin to Cardi B beefing on Nicki Minaj, except quantumly more geeky. There was a sharp intake of breath from everyone in tech, and a very pissy response from Mr. Zuckerberg, in which he called Mr. Cook “extremely glib.”He then asked his employees to use Google’s Android phones instead of iPhones “because it is the most popular operating system in the world.”Uh huh. Except that seems not to have worked and clearly many of his employees ignored the directive. There were reports that iPhone users at Facebook were left stranded this week when Apple cut off the company’s ability to use other beta and internal apps on the iOS platform. Along with unreleased versions of apps, that also meant employees could not access things like bus schedules and cafeteria lunch menus. Apple has since reinstated use of those internal apps. Not knowing which fresh kombucha was being served at 1 Hacker Way obviously hit Facebook techies where they lived, which was the point. It’s interesting to compare Apple’s response this time to a comparable episode with Google. TechCrunch (which broke the original story on the rogue Facebook app) noted that Google had done a similar thing with a research app. Apple did cut off its internal apps, but there was no public hand-slapping, and the tone between the companies has been cordial. The difference: Mr. Cook has been irritated with Mr. Zuckerberg for a while, as tech companies like Apple have been lumped into the messes that Facebook has created, problems that have attracted the ire of regulators and the media.It is not just Mr. Cook. A top executive at another tech giant termed it the “Facebook contagion,” and added, “they are infecting all of tech with their sloppy mistakes.”But what’s most remarkable is how much Mr. Cook has become the critic-in-chief for Facebook. It gets harder to play that role, however, when Apple makes mistakes, too. This week we learned that its FaceTime service had a significant bug that allowed people to spy on other people’s phones. Attorney General Letitia James of New York and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota both criticized Apple for being slow to reveal the issue to the public.It was too slow. But in the end Apple was properly apologetic and did shut down the glitch. Still, it’s not a good look to have a major privacy snafu right after touting your commitment to privacy.And it comes at a dicey time for Apple, which recently warned it was seeing weaker financial results and is under pressure to introduce even more new and innovative products. There is no rest for Mr. Cook, and many observers, including me, have posited that the next years for Apple will be challenging. Still, it’s interesting that Mr. Cook climbed out on this limb anyway. Some insiders at Facebook are alleging he did so to get the heat off Apple’s troubles. But that’s a canard. Mr. Cook has long been vocal about distinguishing Apple from Facebook when it comes to user data and the importance of protecting privacy.The bigger problem is that such an important issue might turn out to be the real nothing burger. Facebook turned in another stellar quarter this week, which made its stock rise strongly. So despite all the sketchy things the company is accused of doing by Apple and many others, most investors and analysts don’t seem to care, and they will never care, as long as its digital advertising business — goosed by its astonishing and nakedly ambitious ability to suck in data, data and more data from all of us — continues to impress. Simply put, Wall Street does not care. Or to use an old bromide: Facebook is so poor, all it has is money.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, The National Enquirer is for sale, and Elon Musk must make nice with the S.E.C.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.You're a busy person, so here's your quick and breezy catch-up on the latest in tech and business news, plus what to know for the week ahead. Your Monday self will be better for it.APRIL 7-13Your ride is (almost) here, but how much is it worth? Uber’s widely anticipated initial public offering, on track for early May, is said to aim for a valuation of $90 billion to $100 billion. That’s significantly lower than the $120 billion that many investors had expected, although it would still be the largest I.P.O. since 2014. Why the falling numbers? For one thing, the ride-sharing company lost $1.8 billion last year, and its growth is slowing. Plus, everyone has been taking note of what happened after the recent I.P.O. of Uber’s smaller rival Lyft. Its shares have already dropped roughly 20 percent below their offering price. The National Enquirer, the checkout-line mainstay known for peddling headlines about aliens on the moon and, more recently, aiding President Trump’s 2016 candidacy, is for sale. The tabloid is led by David J. Pecker, a longtime friend of Mr. Trump’s, and there’s word of a surprising potential buyer: the billionaire Ron Burkle, a Democratic donor with ties to former President Bill Clinton. The publication came under scrutiny for helping Mr. Trump’s political rise by buying the rights to a story from a Playboy model who said she had an affair with him and then never publishing it — a tabloid practice known as catch-and-kill. The Enquirer is now under federal investigation for claims that it threatened Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, with “extortion and blackmail” after exposing details about his extramarital affair. Just what no one wanted: Six more months of Brexit drama. European Union leaders agreed on Wednesday to extend Britain’s withdrawal deadline — again — this time to Oct. 31. Now, British lawmakers will have more time to argue over their long-overdue departure plan, which they’ve already had three years to discuss. While they haggle, businesses will continue to plan for the worst until Brexit trade policies are settled, compromising the country’s economic growth. On the upside, Britain did not crash out of the bloc on Friday without a deal, which could have wreaked economic havoc. But is the extension just prolonging the inevitable? APRIL 14-20Thursday is the deadline for Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, and the Securities and Exchange Commission to work out their differences on Mr. Musk’s Twitter practices. A federal judge in New York has asked both parties to submit a joint letter with clear guidelines about Mr. Musk’s tweets — namely, when Mr. Musk must get approval from a Tesla lawyer before posting. The S.E.C. sought more oversight of Mr. Musk’s communications after he tweeted erroneous information about Tesla more than once, first about taking the company private and later about its production numbers. (Presumably, he will be allowed to keep tweeting about cheese-related flatulence and multicolored squirrels whenever he pleases, as he recently did.) A jury will get to decide whether Apple owes money to the chip manufacturer Qualcomm, which might sound dull if not for the cast of tech stars involved. Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, and Steve Mollenkopf, his counterpart at Qualcomm, are both expected to take the stand at the trial, which begins in San Diego this week. Top brass from other technology companies, like the manufacturing giant Foxconn, are also expected to testify. The showdown is a culmination of a two-year global fight between tech giants, with Qualcomm seeking back payment for chips used in iPhones and Apple disputing Qualcomm’s claims to certain technology. More big banks will release their first-quarter earnings this coming week, and the results may be stronger than expected if JPMorgan’s report on Friday was any indication. Analysts had lowered their projections for bank profits in recent months for a mix of reasons, including the slowing economy and the Federal Reserve’s changing stance on interest rates. Banks’ performances are often seen as a litmus test for overall economic health, and the latest numbers may offer clues to how much we should be worried about a recession — or whether we’re overly paranoid. Disney unveiled plans to take on Netflix with its own streaming service, which will cost $7 a month when it becomes available on Nov. 12. In other news, J. Crew is considering a spinoff of its smaller, fast-growing brand Madewell to raise some much-needed cash. Speaking of crunches, Boeing still has no timetable for getting its grounded 737 Max jets back in the air, and the costs of fixing the planes — and convincing regulators, airlines and passengers that they’re safe to fly — are starting to pile up.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersPARIS — Notre-Dame de Paris cathedral went up in flames on Monday , a blaze that devastated the landmark, destroying its wood-beamed roof and collapsing the iconic spire, a searing loss for Paris and France.President Emmanuel Macron has pledged to rebuild the Gothic masterpiece within five years, and less than 48 hours since the fire began, tycoons, companies, local authorities and individuals have stepped forward with large donations.Stephane Bern, who is in charge of overseeing the funds raised, said the total was approaching 900 million euros (£780.2 million).Here are the main pledges made so far:LVMHFrench billionaire businessman Bernard Arnault's family and his LVMH luxury goods group said they would donate 200 million euros to help repair the cathedral. KERINGFrancois Henri Pinault, who heads the Kering luxury goods company, pledged 100 million euros through his Artemis holding.L'OREALFrench luxury and cosmetics group L'Oreal, along with the Bettencourt Meyer family and the Bettencourt Schueller foundation, will donate 200 million euros in total.AIR FRANCE-KLMAir France offered free transportation for all official participants in Notre-Dame reconstruction.TOTALFrench oil company Total said it will donate 100 million euros.AXAFrench insurer Axa pledged 10 million euros.BNPFrench bank BNP pledged 20 million euros.FIMALAC Marc Ladreit de Lacharriere pledged 10 million euros. VINCIConstruction group Vinci called on all building companies in France to join forces to repair the cathedral in an ""industry-wide skills sponsorship drive"".BOUYGUESMartin Bouygues and his brother Olivier, who oversee a telecoms to construction conglomerate, pledged to donate 10 million euros. Bouygues group separately said it was ready to join the ""skills sponsorship"" drive.SAINT-GOBAINFrench construction materials group Saint-Gobain said it is ready to provide its expertise for the renovation, notably of the stained-glass windows. CAISSE DES DEPOTS CEO Eric Lombard said the state-controlled bank will offer oak trees to rebuild the wood framework of the cathedral. JCDECAUXFrench outdoor advertising group pledged 20 million euros.SOCIETE GENERALESociete Generate bank pledged 10 million euros. CASINO The French retailer said its Franprix and Monoprix stores would implement price-rounding operations to support foundations helping with repairs. APPLECEO Tim Cook said on Twitter Apple would donate an unspecified sum to rebuilding efforts. WALT DISNEY COMPANYRobert Iger, the chairman and chief executive of Disney, said the entertainment company was donating $5 million. CITY OF PARIS Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo said the city would donate 50 million euros.ILE-DE-FRANCE AUTHORITYValerie Pecresse, head of the Ile de France regional authority that includes Paris, pledged 10 million euros.AUVERGNE-RHONE ALPES REGIONLocal government said it would donate 2 million euros.EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANKThe central bank said it would make a donation but did not specify the amount.CAP GEMINIIT services group said it would donate 1 million euros. (Reporting by Dominique Vidalon; Editing by Luke Baker, Peter Graff and Toby Chopra)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Don ClarkSAN FRANCISCO — Nasty legal battles are nothing new in the tech industry. But Apple’s conflict with the wireless chip maker Qualcomm, headed for a crucial court showdown this coming week, has a special intensity.The two companies, once partners of a sort, now disagree about nearly everything — including which one deserves the most credit for shaping the evolution of smartphones.Their formidable legal teams are at war on three continents, in a struggle that could affect the division of billions of dollars of smartphone profits and, perhaps, even how much consumers pay for their phones.Now, the action moves to a federal courtroom in San Diego, where jury selection is set to begin on Monday for a trial on an Apple lawsuit and Qualcomm’s counterclaims. The chief executives of both companies are likely to take the stand.The stakes are reflected in the eye-popping damage claims. Four Asia-based contract manufacturers that assemble iPhones and iPads, whose suits have been merged with Apple’s, argue that they collectively overpaid Qualcomm roughly $9 billion in royalties over the years — a figure that could be tripled under antitrust laws to $27 billion.Apple says Qualcomm should also repay $3.1 billion associated with patents whose rights Apple says are exhausted. It has already won a preliminary ruling that Qualcomm should pay nearly $1 billion in withheld rebates.Qualcomm, in return, estimates that Apple’s partners — Foxconn, Pegatron, Wistron and Compal Electronics — owe more than $7.5 billion in unpaid royalties. And it contends that Apple, which reimburses the manufacturers’ royalty payments, should be liable for a doubled penalty that would take the total to $15 billion or more.Qualcomm’s business practices have also attracted harsh scrutiny from regulators in multiple countries, including China and South Korea. A high-profile Federal Trade Commission antitrust suit is awaiting a judge’s verdict after a trial in San Jose, Calif.The world-spanning legal struggle between Apple and Qualcomm touches on two crucial issues for the tech industry: What is the proper balance between patent rights and competition? And what is the proper role of the government in regulating tech giants?“It’s a great deal more than just a legal case,” said Michael Wolf, who has tracked the issues for his management consulting firm Activate.The fight is an existential one for Qualcomm, at least as it has operated for most of its nearly 34 years in business. The company, based in San Diego, pioneered a type of cellular communications in the 1990s that later became a mainstay of mobile devices. That innovation allowed Qualcomm to charge patent royalties on nearly every smartphone sold, which generates the bulk of its profits.Qualcomm has historically charged about 5 percent of the wholesale price of a mobile phone. Because of Qualcomm’s various patents, companies building phones that would connect to cellular networks must pay that fee for every phone — even if the phone does not actually use Qualcomm chips.Phone makers have little leverage to negotiate for lower rates, the F.T.C. argued in its suit, which was filed in January 2017, that leans partly on Apple’s contentions.Because Qualcomm holds monopoly positions in two varieties of wireless chips, the F.T.C. argued, handset makers feared that Qualcomm could cut off shipments if they balked at paying royalties. Qualcomm insists it never used that tactic. Rival chip makers, denied patent licenses from Qualcomm, have fled the market while suppliers like Intel are struggling, the F.T.C. said.Apple, which sued Qualcomm shortly after the F.T.C.’s action, particularly objects to basing royalties on a phone’s total price. It says that formula means that Qualcomm earns more money as handset makers add innovations like displays, touch sensors and data storage unrelated to wireless technology.Qualcomm insists its business model has benefited consumers by helping to fund new innovations like the latest 5G wireless technology. It has responded with counterclaims that Apple and its manufacturing partners violated licensing contracts. Qualcomm has added a string of other court actions, including patent infringement suits against Apple in the United States, China and Germany.Qualcomm has so far persuaded courts in some countries, including China, to ban sales of some iPhones there, though Apple has dodged shipment disruptions, in part, by tweaking some of its software.The fight has also migrated to Washington. A little over a year ago, Qualcomm was spared a hostile takeover bid by Broadcom after the Trump administration blocked the deal on national security grounds. Qualcomm has raised the possibility that any court-ordered changes to its practices would threaten investments in wireless technologies that are critical to the American military and intelligence gathering. The chip maker also hired the opposition research firm Definers Public Affairs, which has distributed anti-Apple research to reporters.Many Qualcomm customers, partners and rivals are involved in the trial that starts on Monday. Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive; Philip Schiller, the company’s senior vice president of worldwide marketing; Qualcomm’s chief executive, Steven Mollenkopf, and its co-founder Irwin Jacobs could all be called to testify.One of the thorniest topics is whether Qualcomm’s royalty rates hurt consumers by raising smartphone prices. The F.T.C. contends they do, though it didn’t quantify the impact. Pricing is also at the heart of a separate private case against Qualcomm brought on behalf of smartphone purchasers, which seeks $5 billion in aggregate damages.Qualcomm insists its royalties have negligible effect in the mobile market, because competition is sharply reducing prices on many phones and new features have simultaneously pushed flagship models above $1,000. It is appealing a judge’s ruling granting class-action status in the consumer case.“It’s much easier to show harm in a shrinking market,” said David Reichenberg, an antitrust attorney at Cozen O’Connor who specializes in tech cases. “It’s not easy here.”The 11-day trial in January in the F.T.C. case featured testimony by several Apple executives and numerous internal emails from the companies.Apple, which shied away from Qualcomm chips for the first iPhones, was facing the prospect in 2006 of paying $12 to $20 in royalties per handset, Jeff Williams, Apple’s chief operating officer, testified at the trial. It wound up accepting a Qualcomm rebate that reduced the rate to $7.50 per device, as long as Apple agreed not to adopt a rival wireless technology, called WiMax, being promoted by Intel, he said.Apple began using Qualcomm chips for iPhones starting in 2011, after tense negotiations, Mr. Williams said. Apple managed to keep the $7.50 royalty rate as part of deals reached in 2011 and 2013, but the smartphone maker faced big financial penalties if it started using other chip suppliers.“We were staring at an increase of over a billion dollars a year on licensing,” Mr. Williams testified in connection with the 2013 deal. “We had a gun to our head.”Another Apple executive, Tony Blevins, testified that it began searching seriously for alternative suppliers in 2013. But Intel didn’t manage to win a share of Apple chip purchases until 2016.After legal hostilities began with Qualcomm the next year, Apple stopped paying patent royalties and Qualcomm stopped supplying chips for Apple’s newest iPhones — forcing Apple to ask Intel for a surprise increase in production, Mr. Williams said.Qualcomm has insisted that its royalty rates, rebates and exclusivity provisions are standard industry practices and had no effect on restricting competition.Companies like Nvidia, Texas Instruments, Broadcom and Marvell have stopped selling wireless modem chips. But Qualcomm noted that Intel and MediaTek are major suppliers to phone makers, while Samsung and Huawei provide chips for their own phones.“The F.T.C. failed to show harm to competition,” Robert Van Nest, Qualcomm’s lead trial attorney, said in closing arguments at the trial. “The evidence is simply overwhelming that Qualcomm earned its position and success through superior innovation and better products.”Follow Don Clark on Twitter: @donal888.Jack Nicas contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON — The heavens part. The light shines down. The rise in the oceans begins to slow. The world is once more bathed in the mystical glow of a messiah. Our redemption from Donald Trump is at hand.We have The One again, a New One — another lanky, bookish, handsome man with an attractive young family, a thin résumé, an exotic name, a hip affect, a rock star aura, an enticing smile, a liberal press corps ready to fluff his pillows and a frothing Fox News.Let Elizabeth Warren knock herself out with policy proposals. Let Kamala Harris be the adult in the room. Let Bernie Sanders bellow away.The magical man-boy, Beto O’Rourke, has come back from his 40 days in the desert — vlogging, contemplating, floating in and out of a funk — to share his gifts.He has given us the blessed news: “Man, I’m just born to be in it.” He told Vanity Fair that his words at a Texas campaign stop when he was trying to unseat Ted Cruz were pulled out of him “by some greater force,” musing: “Everything that I said, I was, like, watching myself, being like, How am I saying this stuff? Where is this coming from.”Annie Leibovitz advised Beto to wear a blue button-down shirt for her Vanity Fair cover shoot if he was going to run. And now we can hear, as Hillary Clinton noted sardonically about Barack Obama in 2008, “celestial choirs.”Beto floats above the fray, staying vague on nettlesome issues. The 46-year-old offers the politics of feelings.“I don’t have a team counting delegates,” he told Vanity Fair, adding, “It’s probably not the most professional thing you’ve ever heard about this, but I just feel it.”Joe Kennedy built his family’s political myth on good hair, white teeth and glossy star quality. Why shouldn’t Beto?After all, during his 2008 campaign, Obama merely went back to Chicago to see Malia perform in “The Odyssey.” Beto loved the epic so much, he thought about naming his son “Odysseus,” settling instead for “Ulysses.”Wandering alone, as Jesus, Barack and Beto did, is part of the hero’s journey defined by Joseph Campbell. Beto loves Joseph Campbell and “Star Wars,” which was inspired by Campbell’s work.The last One, about the same age when he jumped into national politics precociously aiming to usurp his elders, was also a uniter who went on an odyssey of self-discovery in New York while at Columbia.The last One also sold a cult of personality, offered himself as a symbol of modernity, sparked Oprah’s interest and had a preoccupation with being cool.Indeed, Obama told David Axelrod recently on “The Axe Files” that Beto reminded him of himself.The One anointing the New One. Joe Biden, pushed aside by Obama in the last election, was understandably irritated.Just as reporters once swooned when Obama made like Jay-Z and brushed imaginary dirt off his shoulder after a tough primary debate in Philly in 2008, reporters were entranced when O’Rourke air-drummed “Baba O’Riley” by the Who at a Whataburger drive-through after his debate with Cruz.To many, Beto’s appeal is his persona as a quasi-rebellious ’90s suburban teenager, a skateboarding punk rocker who seems to have modeled his campaign logo on the spicy ketchup logo at Whataburger.But others are less charmed. A satirical video on Twitter by skaters mocked “bad-skater Beto” as the kind of middle-school poser who “went to Zumiez and spent $27 on stickers.”In a new Reuters story, Joseph Menn reveals that while O’Rourke was still a teenager, he was a member of the Cult of the Dead Cow, a stealthy hacking group named after an old Texas slaughterhouse. A kind of Neo-lite, he used the handle “Psychedelic Warlord,” looking for free video games. (Socialist alert!)A hacker might be refreshing after a president who refers to Tim Cook as Tim Apple. Still, Menn writes, “it’s unclear whether the United States is ready for a presidential contender who, as a teenager, stole long-distance phone service for his dial-up modem, wrote a murder fantasy in which the narrator drives over children on the street, and mused about a society without money.”The 15th entry in the Democratic race is at the nexus of many tricky issues for a party desperate to oust Individual 1 from the White House.Is it better to nominate a celebrity like Obama with a slight record that cannot be targeted or someone with established credentials? Should the nominee spring from the far left, the vector brimming with electricity and fight, or is that suicidal in a national election?Can white men jump in, or is this post-#MeToo era the time when Democratic and independent women will demand a woman at the top of the ticket? Will Democratic voters longing for another Obama and the minority voters who strayed from Hillary want an African-American?Can pugilistic progressives stomach a rich kid like Beto at a time when the country is in an eat-the-rich mood? Will they tolerate candidates like Beto and Biden, who speak well of Republicans and have a history of working with them?As The Wall Street Journal reports, O’Rourke tried to please Texas Republican business leaders when he “opposed Obamacare, voted against Nancy Pelosi as the House Democratic leader and called for a raise in the Social Security eligibility age.”The fever is running high in his party. Will Beto turn out to be born for it or borne away by it?I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionRichard DormentOpinionDavid LeonhardtOpinionGail CollinsAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ceylan YeginsuLONDON — He had thought of everything: a home-cooked, candlelit dinner, a romantic playlist, a declaration of love and a ring.But when Tim Egerton, 27, got down on one knee and opened up a heart-shaped box to reveal a white sequin cast into plastic, he didn’t quite get the response he was hoping for.His girlfriend, Danielle Nichol, 26, froze.“Is that a toy,” she said she thought to herself, while trying to find words that would not offend him. “Is this a joke? Should I laugh?” (She wanted to cry.)Reading her agonized expression, Mr. Egerton jumped in with an explanation: “I want you to choose your own ring, this is just so I have something to put on your finger now.”With that, Ms. Nichol laughed with relief and then cried out of happiness as she said “yes” several times. Mr. Egerton later confessed that he didn’t have enough money for a real ring, but assured her that he was saving.The couple’s experience has apparently been widely shared in the last week, as more than 20,000 people have purchased the engagement ring from the discount store Poundland (the British equivalent of America’s Dollar Store). They come in four varieties, with stones resembling diamonds, topaz and rubies, and cost one pound, or about $1.30.The rings have prompted a flood of proposal posts on social media and television — the British presenter Piers Morgan jokingly proposed to his co-host, Susanna Reid, on air — and nearly as much commentary. While some women have dismissed the rings as tacky or insulting, others have welcomed them as a funny and spontaneous idea that allows women to participate in choosing the real ring.“We don’t need to spend thousands in order to tell someone we love them and want to commit,” said Kate Baxter, a jeweler designer and consultant, and the founder of The Cut London, a jewelry store. “A friend of mine was proposed to with a shell on the beach, then you can choose the perfect ring together.”“The notion that a man should spend three times his monthly salary is outdated, in my opinion,” she added. “The best advice is to save up until you can afford to pay for what you want, or make sure you can afford the repayments. If it’s enough to make you wince a little, that’s about right, but there’s no point in starting married life in loads of debt.”Poundland’s jewelry and Valentine’s buyer, Frances O’Sullivan, said that the rings’ acceptance by the public proves that the “one pound proposal is clearly a gem of an idea.”By Valentine’s Day, Poundland was almost sold out of the rings, but a spokesman said they would bring in new stock after Feb. 14 to meet the unceasing demand.Browsing the Valentine’s Day gift section at a Poundland store in London’s northern Kilburn neighborhood, Miriam Abati, a married mother of two, said she would have been mortified if her husband had proposed with a plastic ring.“Those rings are for children,” she said looking at a poster of the rings. “Your husband needs to give you a real ring to prove that he is a man.”Her friend, Joelle, chimed in. “You don’t buy an engagement ring the same place you buy your house cleaning products,” she said, laughing.As marriage proposals have modernized in recent years, men and women are increasingly opting to shop together for their rings to avoid expensive disappointments or mistakes, experts say.When Ms. Nichol announced her engagement to a group of her closest friends on WhatsApp, the first thing they asked after congratulating her was to see the ring.“That’s all anyone really cares about,” she said. “I was too embarrassed to send them a picture of the Poundland ring, but when I told them about it later they loved the idea and had so much respect for Tim,” she recalled. “Now they are helping me choose a real ring.”The Poundland rings have even found favor with older couples. Lizzie Bennetti, a 48-year-old former jeweler, was proposed to on the top of London’s Shard building last Saturday with a placeholder ring.“It was the last ring in Poundland and it was the topaz one, my birthstone,” she said in a phone interview. “It seemed like fate. It was meant to be.”Her boyfriend, Barry Fricker, 47, later gave her a real diamond ring that she said she loved.“As an ex-jeweler, I saw how much pressure it was for men to buy expensive rings,” Ms. Bennetti said. “There should be an affordable way, it’s the thought that counts.”A woman shopping at London’s Portobello Poundland branch disagreed.“Knowing my man, if I had to choose my own ring it would turn into a huge argument about money,” Martha Daly, 46, said. “It’s a bad idea, and I don’t think anyone would end up getting married after having to go through that process.”Follow Ceylan Yeginsu on Twitter: @CeylanWrites.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben HubbardBEIRUT, Lebanon — A Saudi mobile application that lets men track and restrict the movements of women in the kingdom has come under increased scrutiny this week with an American senator and rights groups urging Apple and Google to remove it from their platforms, accusing the technology giants of facilitating gender discrimination.Saudi “guardianship laws” give women a legal status similar to that of minors in many areas of their lives. Every Saudi woman, regardless of age, has a male “guardian,” usually her father or husband, but sometimes her brother or son, who must give his permission for her to get a passport, have certain medical procedures or get married.The app in question, called Absher, was launched in 2015 by the Saudi government. It allows men to manage the women under their guardianship by giving or revoking their right to travel through airports, tracking them by their national identity cards or passports. The men can turn on notifications that alert them with a text message any time a woman under their guardianship passes through an airport.Absher, which roughly translates as “yes sir,” can be downloaded from both the Google Play store and Apple’s app store, which critics say makes the tech companies complicit in the repression of Saudi women.The effort to pull Absher from the platforms got a boost this week when Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, demanded as much in a letter to the two companies.“It is hardly news that the Saudi monarchy seeks to restrict and repress Saudi women, but American companies should not enable or facilitate the Saudi government’s patriarchy,” Mr. Wyden wrote in the letter, which was released on Monday.Addressing Tim Cook and Sundar Pichai, the chief executive officers of Apple and Google, Mr. Wyden said the companies were “making it easier for Saudi men to control their family members from the convenience of their smartphones and restrict their movement.”He requested that they prevent their companies from “being used by the Saudi government to enable the abhorrent surveillance and control of women.”Representatives of Apple and the Saudi government did not immediately respond to requests for comment. A Google spokesman confirmed that the company is assessing the app to determine if it is in accordance with its policies.Saudi Arabia has one of the world’s most restrictive environments for women, although the country’s de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, has pushed to loosen some constraints since his father, King Salman, ascended the throne in 2015.Since then, the kingdom has eased restrictions on women’s dress, expanded the range of fields for women in the work force and begun offering physical education classes for girls in government schools. Last year, Saudi Arabia lifted a longstanding ban on female drivers, a move hailed as a major milestone.But critics say that Saudi women cannot achieve equality as long as the kingdom maintains its guardianship laws. Saudi officials argue that such restrictions are rooted in their culture and supported by many in the kingdom.When asked about the issue in an interview last year, Prince Mohammed said that Saudi Arabia had to “figure out a way to treat this that doesn’t harm families and doesn’t harm the culture.”Absher, which can be used by Saudi nationals and residents of the kingdom, more broadly is an online portal where both men and women can access a range of government services, from paying traffic tickets to applying for new identification cards. The controls on women are just one of its functions.The repression of Saudi women jumped into the headlines last month when an 18-year-old Saudi, Rahaf Alqunun, barricaded herself in a hotel room in the Bangkok airport to avoid being returned to her family. She had slipped away from her family during a holiday in Kuwait and boarded a plane for Thailand, but was stopped in the airport. She was later granted asylum in Canada.Another Saudi woman who had fled the kingdom for Australia described covertly using her father’s phone to access Absher and give herself permission to travel, allowing her to leave the country undetected.Human rights groups including Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have long campaigned for guardianship laws to be repealed, but the targeting of Absher and its availability on Western tech platforms is new.Hala Aldosary, a Saudi scholar and activist based in the United States, said that the removal of the app by Apple and Google could send an important message to leaders like Prince Mohammed, who have sought out partnerships with global tech firms in efforts to enhance their economies.“If the tech companies would say, ‘You are being oppressive,’ that would mean a lot,” Ms. Aldosary said.But removing the app would not get rid of the country’s guardianship laws, she said, and men could still change their female relatives’ status online or in government offices.“The app is a means to an end, but it is not the end,” she said. “But it does make the lives of guardians easier.”When asked about Absher in an interview with National Public Radio on Monday, Mr. Cook of Apple said he had not heard of it.“But obviously we’ll take a look at it if that’s the case,” he said.But both companies have responded to similar campaigns to remove apps.In December, Apple removed a religious app from its online store that portrayed being gay as “a sickness” and “a sin” after a gay rights group campaigned against it, NBC News reported.Megan Specia contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with the safety fears raised after the crash of a Boeing jet, the details of President Trump’s proposed budget, and a pivotal Brexit vote today in Britain.At least 23 airlines have taken the Boeing 737 Max 8 out of service after the second crash involving the model in five months. The company stood by the plane’s safety but said that it planned software updates and was working on changes to flight controls and training guidelines. Here are the latest updates.The voice and data recorders have been recovered from the plane that crashed in Ethiopia on Sunday, but it could still take time to determine the cause of the crash that killed 157 people.Q. and A.: Southwest and American, the only U.S. airlines that use the 737 Max 8, said they would continue to fly the plane. Here’s what travelers should know. The details: The 737 Max is Boeing’s best-selling jet ever, with about 350 registered and thousands on order. The planes typically make more than 8,500 flights a week. These are the airlines that fly them. The president on Monday sent Congress a $4.75 trillion budget that includes a nearly 5 percent increase in military spending and an additional $8.6 billion for construction of a wall along the border with Mexico. The plan, the largest budget in federal history, also makes sharp cuts to domestic programs, including some that Mr. Trump has previously supported. The budget has little chance of passing in its current form, but it does offer a preview of the president’s re-election campaign priorities.Another angle: The waning stimulus from Mr. Trump’s 2017 tax cut and economic damage from his global trade war are undermining his oft-stated objective of increasing growth and reducing trade and budget deficits. Prime Minister Theresa May’s prospects of winning a critical vote today on Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union were dealt a severe blow when the attorney general, Geoffrey Cox, said that last-minute changes in her plan didn’t fundamentally alter the legal status of the agreement.Mr. Cox’s opinion is likely to be crucial in swaying the votes of pro-Brexit lawmakers.What’s next: We’ll have live coverage of the vote, which is expected around 3 p.m. Eastern. If her plan is defeated, Mrs. May has promised lawmakers a vote on whether Britain should leave without a deal, something that could upend the country’s economy. If they reject that, they would then vote on whether Britain should request an extension of its negotiations with Brussels. Britain is scheduled to depart the bloc on March 29.Yesterday: A protest by customs officers in France delayed Eurostar trains and backed up trucks for miles, providing a taste of a post-Brexit world.The Central American country, population 5 million, wants to wean itself from fossil fuels by 2050, an aspiration that scientists say other countries would need to share in some form if the world is to avert the direst consequences of global warming.How to pay for Costa Rica’s ambitions remains a question mark. But if its decarbonization strategy succeeds, it could provide a road map for others, especially developing countries. If it doesn’t work in a small, politically stable country, it would have equally profound consequences.Quotable: “If we can’t pull it off by 2050, it’s likely no other country can pull it off,” said one economist and climate adviser to Costa Rica’s government. “That would be really bad.”For decades, American museums have received gifts from donors inspired by philanthropic zeal, lucrative tax deductions and/or the prestige of seeing their works in esteemed settings. But there’s often no way to display more than a small fraction of the holdings, and the cost of climate-controlled storage is prohibitive. One of our arts reporters gauged the scope of the problem. The Indianapolis Museum of Art is ranking its works to decide what to sell or donate, and you can test yourself against the museum’s experts.Out of Venezuela: The U.S. is withdrawing its remaining diplomatic personnel from the embassy in Caracas because of worsening conditions in the country, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said today.Founder quits troubled charity: Juan Sanchez, the founder of Southwest Key Programs, resigned on Monday after family separations at the Mexican border brought intense scrutiny to the organization, the largest provider of shelters for migrant children. Southwest Key’s chief financial officer left last month after a Times article outlined allegations of mismanagement and possible malfeasance.New Trump-related inquiry: The New York attorney general’s office has issued subpoenas to two banks for records related to four Trump Organization projects and a failed effort to buy the Buffalo Bills football team.3,200 pounds of cocaine: An inspection of a container that arrived in Newark has uncovered one of the largest shipments of the drug ever seized in the New York City area.Snapshot: Above, in Iwaki, Japan, on Monday, the eighth anniversary of the earthquake and tsunami that killed around 16,000 people. The disasters also caused a meltdown at the Fukushima nuclear plant.Late-night comedy: President Trump said his reference last week to Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, as “Tim Apple” was a way to save time and words. “As we all know from his two-hour speeches, the president hates to waste time with words,” Jimmy Kimmel said. What we’re listening to: This playlist from NPR Music. Anna Holland, an editor based in London, says: “Every year, I look forward to the Austin 100 playlist, which highlights the best acts at the South by Southwest Music Festival. I always find something I love that I might never have heard otherwise.”  Cook: With spaghetti carbonara, the main goal is creaminess.Listen: The first Drake verse of 2019 heralds the coming of spring and, with it, the hope of new options on the horizon, writes Jon Caramanica. The rapper’s remix of Summer Walker’s “Girls Need Love” combines the tender and the tough.Watch: In Hulu’s “Pen15,” Anna Konkle and Maya Erskine play lightly fictionalized versions of themselves in seventh grade, surrounded by actual 13-year-old actors.See: Tori Sampson’s new Off Broadway play “If Pretty Hurts Ugly Must Be a _________” is a Critic’s Pick. It’s a contemporary fable about the black female body and its discontents.Smarter Living: Building a strong team requires treating co-workers with respect and accountability. If you say you’re going to do something, follow through — and expect the same of others.Also, we have tips from women and nonbinary D.J.s and performers on how to stay safe on the dance floor.Charles Boycott couldn’t buy food. He couldn’t find employees. He could hardly walk down the street in peace.Boycott, born on this day in 1832, wasn’t the first person shunned as a form of protest, but it’s his name that signifies the practice.In 1880, residents of County Mayo, Ireland, were facing potential famine after several failed harvests, and many could not pay their rent. Boycott, the land agent for a wealthy nobleman, was responsible for evicting those on his employer’s 40,000 acres.When he tried, the Irish National Land League suggested nonviolent protest. Boycott’s neighbors shunned him. Stores declined to serve him, his laborers quit and jeering mobs followed him.Boycott’s plight attracted international attention, including front-page articles in The New York Times.Boycott left Ireland, but his name remained, reportedly popularized by a priest who thought “ostracize” would confuse common people.Within months, The Times was using it to describe events elsewhere in the world.Fancy a trip to Vegas? In his latest dispatch, our 52 Places traveler has some tips.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Aodhan Beirne wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is the third part of our report about what to expect from the special counsel’s investigation.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Beethoven called him “the immortal god of harmony” (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The New York Times College Scholarship Program is financed by reader donations and an endowment fund. The 10 recipients for this year’s program will get up to $15,000 in financial assistance for every year of college, as well as mentoring and internship opportunities with The New York Times Company.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThings Editors LikeA roundup of things our editors — and a few contributors — are excited about in a given week.“A sketch of one of our coats almost looks like a children’s drawing,” says Camille Serra, the French designer at the helm of the new outerwear brand Kassl Editions. “It’s just very simple, graphic lines,” she adds. Launched last June in Amsterdam, the company has one clear mission: to reinterpret the classic fisherman’s coat with every collection. Founded by a team of fashion industry veterans — Ilse Cornelissens and Tim Van Geloven, founders of the concept store Graanmarkt 13 in Antwerp, Belgium, Bart Ramakers and Charlotte Schreuder of Parrot, an Amsterdam-based fashion agency, and Christian Salez, the former C.E.O. of Delvaux — Kassl prides itself on its minimalist approach.All Kassl coats have the same basic silhouette, inspired by a vintage fisherman’s coat. New editions are released a couple times a year in different colors and fabrics, sourced from Italy and Japan. The first edition offered a short A-line button-up mackintosh, which came in a buttery cream and a lacquered olive cotton, while for spring the brand proposes an oversize, elongated trench coat in powder pink and white. “The fashion system is crazy to keep up with,” says Cornelissens. “A sustainable way of changing the flow would be to make sure pieces come in at the right time, so they don’t end up in midseason sales.”The brand takes its name from Kassel, the city in central Germany where the line’s coats are made by a family-run factory that also manufactures outerwear for the German fire brigade. Minimally embellished and made from technical materials including oilcloth and rubber, the coats are built to last: velcro-fastening cuffs and sealed seams keep out wind and rain, while buttons are affixed with a metal ring to stop them from ever falling off. “Brands are offering too many stories today,” says Serra, who still wears her dad’s cashmere coat that predates the 1970s. “But you can play many different games with fabrics to bring diversity in a very simple idea. Focusing on just one thing is more radical.” kassleditions.com — GRACE COOKWithin Japan’s most stylish lifestyle shops and department stores, one simple cast iron pot has become a best-seller: Vermicular’s Musui-Kamado (which translates to waterless oven), a round lidded cooking vessel with an electric induction heating base. The Musui-Kamado, which will make its stateside debut next week, has earned its place among Japanese households not only for its streamlined aesthetic, but also for its ability to challenge what a single pot can do. It promises to eclipse the Dutch oven as a kitchen’s most valuable workhorse, adding the more technical tasks of sous-viding (no vacuuming required), proofing bread and fermenting to the usual roster of slow cooking, roasting, sautéing and baking.“We simply wanted more people to enjoy the natural flavors and true essence of ingredients,” says Tomo Hijikata, who co-founded Vermicular in 2010 with his brother, Kuni. They launched the Musui-Kamado in Japan in 2016 and now also carry oven-top pots in several sizes, along with accessories including organic cotton pot holders, magnetized wood trivets, recipe books and linen dish towels.Their goal was to design a pot that would optimize flavor profiles without the need for seasoning, sauces or even water. After three years and over 10,000 prototypes, the resulting 3.9-quart pot features a triple coating of cadmium-free enamel, a remarkably airtight seal and its namesake Vermicular graphite iron — a material that is difficult to manipulate but unmatched in its heat conductivity, lightness and durability. The Hijikata brothers practically grew up in their grandfather’s foundry, which once produced industrial dobby looms and sewing machines for Japan’s booming textile market. Vermicular was created, in part, to resuscitate the foundry after Japan’s recession in the ’90s, bringing work to the three generations of ironworkers that the Hijikatas refer to as “family.”Available for purchase on January 31 on Vermicular’s U.S. website, and shipping mid February, the Musui is the very definition of user-friendly. When paired with the precision Kamado base, adjustments can be made in 1ºF increments, and can go as low as 90ºF. Better yet, an illustrated touch-pad allows you to cook a specific strain of rice, poach eggs, roast pork loin, sous-vide pâté, or make yogurt with the touch of a few buttons. And the abbreviated color range of black, charcoal and off-white serves as a quiet reminder that when it comes to kitchen cook wear, less is always more. $300-$670 welcome.vermicular.us — MACKENZIE WAGONERIn a sense, the creative partnership between the Paris-based home wares brand Astier de Villatte and the Polish-French artist Balthus began in the 1960s. During that time, Balthus served as the director of Villa Medici, home to the French Academy in Rome, and the parents of the brand’s co-founder Benoît Astier de Villatte, who lived there as pensioners, befriended the artist. (Ivan Percoli, Astier de Villatte’s other co-founder, spent time in Rome as a child as well, and considered the villa’s garden “an occasional playground,” he says.) In recent years, the designer duo has grown closer to Setsuko Klossowska de Rola, Balthus’s widow, and their daughter Harumi, regularly traveling to the Grand Chalet in Rossinière, Switzerland, where the Klossowskas reside — a camaraderie that has now resulted in a pair of new products.“Harumi has been asking us for years to work on recreating the scent of her father’s studio, because, for her, it’s one of the most fabulous smells,” Percoli explains. Combining hints of turpentine, linseed oil, canvas, wood and tobacco (“Balthus was smoking all his life,” Percoli mentions), they came up with the Atelier de Balthus scented candle, packaged in a ceramic paint can. For Percoli and Astier de Villatte, another intriguing bit of Balthus lore is “Mitsou,” the book the artist made at age 11 about his cat (with a preface by the poet Rainer Maria Rilke). “We noticed that the many reprints that have been done since it was published in 1921 were not very faithful to the original,” Percoli says. In 2015, he and Astier de Villatte jointly acquired a printing press — among the last to use linotypes — and it is there that they’ve produced a reissue of “Mitsou” to perfectly match the first edition. Watch a short documentary on how the project came together. astierdevillatte.com and johnderian.com in the U.S. — HILARY MOSSBarring space travel or universal cataclysm, most of us will never get to experience the sensation of being swallowed by a Black Hole. But that doesn’t stop us from wondering: What would it feel like? What would it look like? And what would being swallowed by a black hole actually sound like? Those were a few of the questions dogging the filmmaker Eliza McNitt as she set out to create the three-part interactive virtual reality film “SPHERES,” which picked up the Grand Jury Prize for the Best Immersive Virtual Reality Experience at the Venice Film Festival last year — and which is on view now at Rockefeller Center.Executive produced by Darren Aronofsky, the three 15-minute episodes each take on a different element of space — inside an Oculus Rift headset, you fall into a black hole, skip on Saturn’s rings, and see Earth from the vantage point of a star — all scored with original music by Kyle Dixon and Michael Stein (of “Stranger Things”) and rendered in thrilling CGI. “My first virtual reality experience ‘Fistful of Stars’ showed the universe through the eyes of the Hubble Telescope,” McNitt told T in an email, referencing her 2017 film. “It was about everything in the universe we can see with our eyes. It led me to wonder what happens when we listen. Space is not silent. It’s actually full of sounds. For thousands of years we’ve looked to the stars to find our place in the universe but for the very first time we listen to its music.”The first episode, “Chorus of the Cosmos,” is narrated by Millie Bobby Brown, the second, “Songs of Spacetime,” by Jessica Chastain, and the third, “Pale Blue Dot,” by Patti Smith. “I’ve grown up with the voices of Carl Sagan and Stephen Hawking guiding me through the cosmos,” McNitt says. Now, she adds: “I wanted to hear the voices of three different generations of women tell me the story of science in the universe.” “Spheres” is on view through March 3 at Rockefeller Center, 600 Fifth Ave., rockefellercenter.com — ISABEL WILKINSONAn earlier version of “The Perfect Fisherman’s Coat,” the first item above, had multiple errors. The article misidentified the founders of Kassl Editions; they are Ilse Cornelissens, Tim Van Geloven, Bart Ramakers, Charlotte Schreuder and Christian Salez, not a 10-person team including Gijsje Ribbens and Merel van den Bergh. The article also misidentified when the brand was launched; it was last June, not September. The article referred incorrectly to the coat styles that Kassl offers. All Kassl coats have the same basic silhouette; there is not one new silhouette per collection. It also referred incorrectly to the frequency of new editions; there are a few editions per year, released at irregular intervals, not a new edition every three months. The article misspelled the given name of one of Kassl's founders; she is Ilse Cornelissens, not Isle. It also misspelled the name of a concept store in Antwerp; it is Graanmarkt 13, not Granmaarkt. And it mischaracterized Cornelissens's role in the founding of Graanmarkt 13; she was the store's co-founder, not its founder. Finally, the article misspelled the German city that is the brand's namesake; it is Kassel, not Kassl.Advertisement"
" The Snap chief said that he was “impressed” by Europe’s moves, and that there was still time to “course-correct” in the United States.At The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California, Evan Spiegel, Snapchat’s founder, said he was impressed with the privacy regulations enacted in Europe.CreditCreditMike Cohen for The New York TimesSupported byBy Katie RobertsonHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — With the continued pressure to regulate Silicon Valley, many wonder when, and how, the United States will act.Sam Altman, president of the start-up incubator Y Combinator, said the onus was on the government.“The idea that these companies who are not accountable to us or elected by us should get to decide sort of the new safeguards of society, that seems like the wrong way to do it,” Mr. Altman said last week at The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California. “I think we should let our — flawed as they may be — democratically elected and enforced institutions update the rules for the world.”He suggested restrictions around how user-generated content was amplified or distributed, as well as the classifications of hate speech or fake news.The United States has lagged behind its peers and has provided little regulation of the industry that is one of its biggest economic drivers.In January, leaders at the World Economic Forum in Davos pushed for more global oversight to limit the power of big tech. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan announced plans to use his country’s leadership of the Group of 20 nations this year to emphasize data governance.America’s own tech chiefs, including the Apple chief executive Tim Cook and executives from Facebook, Google and Microsoft, have lobbied for a comprehensive federal privacy law. Europe has enacted the world’s toughest rules on digital privacy with a sweeping law known as the General Data Protection Regulation.In a recent capitulation to the growing calls for a watchdog, the Federal Trade Commission announced Tuesday that it would create a task force to scrutinize tech giants. The F.T.C. is also said to be considering a multibillion-dollar fine for Facebook over privacy violations.Facebook’s very public reckoning recently has hastened the push for more regulation. The company is accused of, among other things, compromising privacy, harvesting user data, and allowing misinformation, propaganda and hate speech to spread, including during the 2016 presidential election. Also, the Times reported that its leaders covered up problems and targeted critics, enlisting an opposition-research firm to discredit naysayers.Mr. Altman defended Facebook’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, and its chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, saying the company was rapidly improving its practices. “Mark and Sheryl are extremely thoughtful people that have built one of the most important companies in human history. And I think they are listening,” Mr. Altman said.While Facebook and Twitter have taken plenty of hits for their approach to user data and social media, Snapchat, the disappearing-message app made by Snap Inc., has largely escaped the cascading criticism.Evan Spiegel, its founder, said Snapchat’s approach was different from that of its contemporaries, who are trying to police content.“We believe that just a small percentage of the content out there is really great content,” he said. “And so by focusing on that small amount of content and just not allowing really, you know, that longer tail of content creators to distribute content widely on our platform, we ultimately end up with a better content experience for our customers.”Mr. Spiegel linked the current climate for technology companies to the thinking in the Clinton administration around innovation at the beginning of the internet — an attitude of “we want people to mess around with it and to create wild new things, and because of that we don’t really think regulation is the right way to go.”“I think our society is now starting to understand how the internet works in a way that maybe they didn’t 20 years ago,” he said.But, Mr. Spiegel acknowledged, there was plenty of room to “course-correct.” He said he was “really impressed” with Europe’s moves, which he believed would inspire the next wave of privacy regulation.“I’ve found the European Commission to be very well-reasoned and thoughtful in their approach, and really putting consumers first,” Mr. Spiegel said. “The more that companies can align with the government to do what’s right for customers, I think everyone will win there.”He said the concern that regulating big tech would slow growth should be balanced with a consideration of America’s values.“The important thing in all of these debates is to, I think, offer at least the other side of economic progress, which may be the preservation of values that we care a lot about,” he said. “The real world and the internet are one and the same. They have a dramatic impact on one another. And that means that I think we need to be a little more thoughtful and deliberate about the products we’re creating and releasing widely.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Daisuke WakabayashiSAN FRANCISCO — A former senior lawyer at Apple who oversaw the company’s insider trading policies was himself accused of insider trading by federal prosecutors and securities regulators in complaints made public on Wednesday.The Securities and Exchange Commission said in a suit that Gene Levoff, a former senior director of corporate law and a corporate secretary at Apple, repeatedly traded on inside information from 2011 to 2016.The S.E.C. said Mr. Levoff violated insider trading laws three times from 2015 to 2016. On one occasion, Mr. Levoff sold roughly $10 million of Apple stock — nearly his entire holdings — from his personal brokerage account four days before Apple announced quarterly earnings on July 21, 2015.In a related action, federal prosecutors in New Jersey charged Mr. Levoff with one count of securities fraud in a criminal complaint.The company’s stock price fell 4 percent after the earnings report, in which Apple revealed it had fallen short of analysts’ estimates for iPhone sales.Mr. Levoff had already seen a draft of the announcement and avoided about $345,000 in losses by dumping his Apple shares before the official announcement, the S.E.C. said. But since the end of 2016, Apple’s share price has increased 47 percent.Kevin Marino, Mr. Levoff’s lawyer and a principal at the law firm Marino, Tortorella & Boyle, said he was reviewing the allegations against Mr. Levoff and looked forward to defending him.“Gene Levoff was a trusted Apple executive for many years, and has never before been accused of wrongdoing of any kind,” Mr. Marino said in a statement.According to the S.E.C., Mr. Levoff oversaw Apple’s corporate law group of 20 to 30 lawyers and paralegals. He was responsible for Apple’s compliance with securities laws and providing legal advice for the company’s S.E.C. filings and financial reporting. He also served as a corporate officer of every major Apple subsidiary.“As a member of the core group of senior Apple insiders entrusted with material nonpublic information, and as an attorney with a sophisticated understanding of securities and corporate law, Levoff knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that he had a duty of trust and confidence to the company and its shareholders,” according to the complaint filed in United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.The S.E.C. said he was placed on leave in July and fired in September.“After being contacted by authorities last summer, we conducted a thorough investigation with the help of outside legal experts, which resulted in termination,” an Apple spokesman, Josh Rosenstock, said in a statement.In an indication of how senior Mr. Levoff was at the company, he was part of Apple’s disclosure committee — a group that helps Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, and Luca Maestri, the chief financial officer, determine whether the company is meeting its responsibilities for providing accurate and timely disclosures to investors.At the time of his departure, Mr. Levoff reported to Katherine Adams, Apple’s general counsel. She replaced Bruce Sewell, who served as the company’s top lawyer for eight years until he stepped down in 2017.Mr. Levoff was responsible for ensuring compliance with Apple’s insider trading rules, including sending emails to individuals who were subject to trading restrictions around Apple’s quarterly earnings announcements. Apple’s insider trading policy said any individual with material, nonpublic information about the company was not allowed to trade the stock until 60 hours after that information had been announced.The S.E.C. said Mr. Levoff also engaged in insider trading on three other occasions from 2011 to 2012. In each instance, Mr. Levoff received draft news releases and S.E.C. filings. He then bought thousands of shares of Apple stock before the public announcement. Shortly after the stock rose on the positive earnings announcements, Mr. Levoff sold the shares. He made approximately $245,000 in profits on those insider trading transactions.Before those transactions, Mr. Levoff sent emails to company employees alerting them that a blackout period was starting and that they were prohibited from trading Apple securities.Follow Daisuke Wakabayashi on Twitter: @daiwaka.Matthew Goldstein contributed reporting from New York.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Sunday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)The week of the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum is a fire hose of news. Headlines, predictions, sightings and tidbits that months and years later are recognized as the flash point for much larger shifts and trends can often get overlooked.To help you sort through it all, we’ve put together this crib sheet of everything that we think was important that happened here in Davos. (Yes, I’m writing this from Davos on my way home.)Before we get into the substance, a couple of observations.The World Economic Forum has traditionally brought together the world’s top political and business leaders. But this year, the political leaders were largely absent — remaining in their home countries to handle crises largely of their own making (President Trump with the shutdown and Prime Minister Theresa May with Brexit).The surprise guest this year was Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, making his first appearance; it may be an indication of Apple’s increasing dependence on foreign markets for growth.The topic du jour (besides the shutdown) was a debate over where the global economy was headed. Chief executives professed confidence that their earnings would continue apace, while economists and investors talked about the prospect of a recession in 2020. And others, like Ray Dalio — and Seth Klarman, who did not attend, but whose annual letter was a constant talking point — worried about social unrest. Interestingly, Dr. Doom — Nouriel Roubini — was actually upbeat.A Chinese chief executive described his country’s economy as “ugly” — he used that world repeatedly — suggesting that the underlying foundation there was more fragile than most economists acknowledge. That could lead to weakness in China spreading to the rest of the world. And the general sense is that while the U.S. and China may reach a trade détente, we might be headed for a decades-long economic cold war.Larry Fink’s letter and the concept of E.S.G., shorthand for “environmental, social and governance,” got a lot of discussion this year — it felt like it might be a tipping point in the dialogue. European companies are still more interested in E.S.G. than U.S. companies, but it feels like a trend that isn’t going away. TPG’s Rise Fund started a new company, Y Analytics, to measure E.S.G. Bono, a board member of Rise, was on hand to talk about impact investing and to support his Red brand, which he started a decade ago in Davos (DealBook broke that story at the time) as well as his One franchise. Matt Damon was in town to raise money for his water.org, which is turning into a quite successful story (side note: Mr. Damon had to borrow a suit because his bag got lost by Swiss Air). Jane Goodall was also in Davos — and let me say that she is as nice as she is important. Even the Vatican sent a delegation to talk about conscious and inclusive capitalism.And Rebecca Blumenstein, the deputy managing editor of The New York Times, interviewed Bill Gates on Twitter about his work around the globe.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in Davos, Switzerland; Stephen Grocer in New York; and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The soap opera of tariff negotiations has riveted economists and executives: Will Beijing keep its promises? Will Washington cooperate?But the real drama is not about trade, but about technology, many in Davos have said. The brewing conflict could affect generations and disrupt the world order, according to Fred Kempe, the chief executive of the think tank Atlantic Council. He wrote:The growing danger is that the tech race could become the primary battleground in a struggle between democracy and autocracy — and between China and the U.S. The dangers of a technological Cold War, a zero-sum contest for global dominance that ultimately separates Chinese and U.S. tech sectors from each other and divides up the world, are increasing.What’s the worry? The billionaire George Soros said that artificial intelligence, when in the hands of authoritarian regimes, was a “mortal threat” to the world. He cited China, which is developing a social credit system that would use personal data to judge an individual’s trustworthiness, as an example. President Xi Jinping could eventually have “total control over the people,” making him “the most dangerous opponent of open societies,” Mr. Soros said.What do the Chinese think? The technology industry relies heavily on global interactions and is “probably suffering the most right now,” said Ken Hu, the deputy chairman of Huawei. The Chinese telecommunications company has been accused by multiple nations, including the U.S., of violating trade rules. Other players, such as the Chinese state-owned oil and gas company Sinopec, say they expect Chinese companies to scale back foreign investment — steps already taken by Alibaba and by GAC Motor. Last year, nearly 60 percent of Chinese C.E.O.s considered the U.S. to be the most important foreign market; this year, only 17 percent feel the same, according to one survey published this past week.Hope for resolution? Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said via video link that Washington was willing to play nice with Beijing if China pledged to protect intellectual property. At a dinner in Davos, a top Chinese regulator heard complaints from international business leaders about the ownership structure of state-owned enterprises and about the Made in China 2025 effort, which aims to take the lead in industries such as artificial intelligence and robotics.But China wants its space. Vice President Wang Qishan said in a speech that “it is imperative to respect national sovereignty and refrain from seeking technological hegemony.” He added:We need to respect the independent choices of model of technology management and of public policies made by countries, and their right to participating in the global technological governance system as equals.A recession may not be coming this year, but neither is a boom, Greg Ip of the WSJ writes.The International Monetary Fund downgraded its 2019 forecast for global growth to 3.5 percent. That’s a respectable number, he writes, but the world is struggling to sustain even that muted pace.The reason: The world cannot tolerate interest rates as high as it once did. The “neutral” interest rate — one that is high enough to contain inflation, yet low enough to avoid recession — is much lower than before.The underlying cause: As aging workers retire and birthrates drop, the labor force has grown more slowly. Productivity has also eked out smaller gains than in the past.The upshot: Central banks need to proceed carefully, because a little fiscal tightening goes a long way.More on the global economy: Ray Dalio, founder and chairman of the hedge fund Bridgewater, said he foresaw slower growth rates in the U.S. and Europe. France is sticking to a 1.7 percent economic growth forecast for 2019, the French finance minister, Bruno Le Maire, said. Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., warned against an overreliance on central banks, urging countries to strengthen their economies through fiscal and structural changes. In the absence of world leaders, the atmosphere was downbeat.Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez wasn’t in Davos this week. It just felt like she was.The New York representative’s proposal to impose a 70 percent tax rate on income above $10 million came up frequently among the uber-wealthy in attendance.In those elite circles, filled with people whose fortunes have soared in recent years, the idea was not popular.Michael Dell, the billionaire founder of Dell Technologies, is not a fan, for one. Scott Minerd, the chief investment officer of Guggenheim Partners, said the concept was “scary.” Glenn Hutchins, the chairman of North Island and a co-founder of Silver Lake Partners, suggested that it was an attempt to “score political points” and that it would probably be unsuccessful. Ken Moelis, the chief executive of the investment bank Moelis & Company, said it would be “disastrous for the economy.”Stephen Schwarzman, the billionaire chief executive of Blackstone, said he was “wildly enthusiastic” about Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s pitch. (He was being sarcastic.)But as the economy slows and 2020 election talk surges, taxing the rich is a topic that will most likely continue to surface. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, a Democratic candidate for president, proposed a so-called ultramillionaire tax this week on the 75,000 wealthiest families in the country, including President Trump’s.Still, top earners would probably figure out how to sidestep such rules, Mr. Minerd said.The political pendulum is swinging. The conservatives found out they’re being held hostage by the extreme right. Now the Democrats are going to find out they’re being held hostage by the extreme left.Globalization had some powerful defenders in Davos, with world leaders imploring delegates not to abandon postwar principles of international integration.Several took jabs at the absent President Trump without mentioning him by name, criticizing his “America First” foreign policy and his habit of provoking trade disputes. The vice president of China, Wang Qishan, whose own country has been accused of running roughshod over foreign competitors and global business rules, nonetheless condemned “practices of the strong bullying the weak and self-claimed supremacy.”Carrie Lam, the chief executive of Hong Kong, said that certain countries were drifting from the multilateral framework of the past few decades.“If that is no longer the mainstream, we could be in trouble,” she said.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who leads a country that is deeply reliant on international trade and increasingly surrounded by neighbors confronted by protectionist tendencies, urged Western powers to “act against the fragmentation of the international architecture.”She said that global organizations such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank should be reformed and that countries should embrace compromise. She added:I think we should understand our national interest in a way that we think about the interests of others, and from that create win-win situations that are the precondition for multilateralism.Shinzo Abe, the prime minister of Japan, pledged his country’s support for “the free, open, and rules-based international order.” He called on forum participants to “rebuild trust toward the system for international trade.”World leaders called for more regulation. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan said his country would push for a new international system for the oversight of data use.His proposal was echoed by others:• The South African president, Cyril Ramaphosa, said African Union leaders would discuss greater oversight of the tech sector at a meeting early next month.• Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany cited a need for the European Union to have a “common digital market.”• Vice President Wang Qishan of China also said that more international cooperation in regulating the market was required.Talk focused on global governance, data privacy and the impact of artificial intelligence, but there was no consensus on what approach to take. Some official sessions tried to put a positive spin on the effects of technological advances, but the optimism seemed out of step with public concern about the disruptive effect on privacy and politics.Tech leaders make the rounds: On his first trip to the forum, Tim Cook, the Apple chief executive, met with world leaders, including President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil and Dubai’s crown prince, Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum. Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, acknowledged that her company needed to earn back the trust of the public. Microsoft’s chief executive, Satya Nadella, said that as facial recognition technology grew, he would “welcome regulation that will help the marketplace not be a race to the bottom.”Environmental issues took center stage, with world leaders and celebrities weighing in and new partnerships being formed. One of the biggest initiatives announced at the forum was an alternative recycling platform called Loop, which seeks to change the way consumers buy brand-name products.The concept: The project revives the milkman concept, in which products are delivered in reusable containers that are returned to the manufacturer.The partners: Some of the largest consumer goods companies — including Danone, Mars Petcare, Mondelez International, Nestlé, PepsiCo, Procter & Gamble and Unilever — are working together on the project as a way to limit waste.The pitchman: Tom Szaky, founder and chief executive of the recycling company TerraCycle, headed to Davos two years ago to meet with the leaders of packaged goods companies and push his big idea.Climate concerns dominated much of the discussion elsewhere at the gathering:• In an interview with Prince William, the naturalist David Attenborough took world leaders to task for waiting too long to address climate change.• Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand joined the chorus, urging her global counterparts to think about the role they play in addressing climate change, while Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan called for action on the issue.• The singer Bono poked fun at sustainable development goals, saying, “The S.D.G.s, it does sound like a sexually transmitted disease, doesn’t it?”• An expected drop in private jet traffic to Davos this year could be a sign that participants are taking the environmental impact of their travel more seriously.• Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old climate activist from Sweden, gave a speech urging the global elite to protect the planet.• Forum participants seemed receptive to Saudi Arabia’s damage control campaign over the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. (Reuters)•The World Economic Forum hosts 3,000 official participants, but the population of Davos swells to 30,000 during the week. Here are the unaffiliated events, sessions and parties that drew celebrities like Matt Damon and Wyclef Jean. (CNBC)• The Bank of England is ready for Brexit and is disillusioned with Bitcoin, said its governor, Mark Carney. (Bloomberg)• Hundreds of protesters, some waving signs that read “Let them eat money,” complained that the elite participants at Davos cared more about the bottom line than about the state of the world. (AP)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byHow the Nanaimo bar, a three-layer no-bake treat from British Columbia, conquered a nation’s palate.By Sara BonisteelThe Canadian city of Nanaimo, in British Columbia, has been a scrappy outpost of the Hudson’s Bay Company, a coal mining center and a timber town. But its place in history may be forever entwined with its culinary namesake, one of the world’s sweetest treats.The Nanaimo bar (pronounced nuh-NYE-mo) is a three-layer no-bake square that for the last seven decades or so has been a steadfast source of comfort to Canadians at weddings and funerals, birthdays and bar mitzvahs. Across the country, you’ll find the sugary bars for sale at small-town gas stations and supermarkets, where they compete with Nanaimo bar baking kits. In 2017, the Tim Hortons restaurant chain created a filled doughnut with the flavors of the Nanaimo bar for the nation’s sesquicentennial, a nod to its status. Even its name is proudly Canadian.“I like to call it the Kardashian of Canadian desserts because really, if it had been named anything else, I don’t think it would have lasted,” said Lenore Newman, the author of “Speaking in Cod Tongues: A Canadian Culinary Journey.” “But it’s the Nanaimo bar, so of course people make it.”The square looks something like a geological cross section. Its base is sedimentary: coconut and chopped walnuts bound together by a buttery silt of cocoa and crushed graham crackers. A middle layer of yellow buttercream teeters on the brink of liquefaction. And its top crust of chocolate, hard and brittle, thaws like the Arctic tundra the longer it lingers at room temperature.“It’s that balance of sweetness and texture that makes it just so appealing, and it looks pretty,” said Anna Olson, a pastry chef and the host of the Food Network Canada show “Bake With Anna Olson.” “For the home cook, it’s an attractive dessert: It doesn’t look sloppy, it doesn’t look crafty.”The Nanaimo bar’s story begins with the so-called dainty recipes of the mid-20th century, treats engineered to be whipped up for unexpected company from pantry staples.“The base layer was one of these 1950s recipes that circulated among housewives in mill towns all around the British Empire,” said Dr. Newman, a geography professor at the University of the Fraser Valley, in British Columbia, who also noted that a New Zealand dessert, the caramel slice, has a similar base.Dr. Newman believes that the women of Nanaimo added the middle and top layers. The first mention that she and a student, Shea Wind, could find was in a 1953 recipe in The Vancouver Sun for London smog bars, which stated that they were also called Nanaimo bars. The use of custard powder — an instant custard mix, which was a pantry staple of the empire, devised for those with egg allergies — gave their new dainty its distinctive yellow belt.Around the same time, bakers in Canada’s prairie provinces were serving up a similar creation, also called the smog bar, which Jean Paré, 91, learned how to make from her mother, Ruby Elford, in Irma, Alberta, a town of 250 about 110 miles southeast of Edmonton.“I forget how many do’s I went to before I finally found that they were called Nanaimo bars by other people,” she said in a phone interview, using an old-fashioned term for a gathering.Mrs. Paré (pronounced Perry) is a well-known Canadian cookbook author whose “Company’s Coming” books have sold by the millions. She included Nanaimo bars in her first book in the series, “150 Delicious Squares,” in 1981. Before she wrote cookbooks, Mrs. Paré catered events. Nanaimo bars were almost always on the dessert-square tray, which would make an appearance anytime a sweet snack was required, often at the “midnight lunch” served after the dinner and dancing at Albertan wedding receptions. “I didn’t have to bake them, and they froze so well,” she said.Only once, she said, did she decide to sub out the Nanaimo bar, and people asked for them by name: “So that was the last time I ever tried that.”Susan Mendelson was a university student in Vancouver in the 1970s when she started making the bars and selling them at a local theater, using a recipe from a classmate. They were a hit, and she opened a catering company, the Lazy Gourmet, with a friend. She published the basic recipe in her first cookbook, “Mama Never Cooked Like This,” and variations in subsequent ones, including the official cookbook of the 1986 world’s fair in Vancouver, which Dr. Newman credits with helping to spread the bar’s fame. Ms. Mendelson’s version of the bar was so good that the novelist Margaret Atwood included it in her “Canlit Foodbook,” which compiled writing and recipes from Canadian authors. And the city of Nanaimo finally took notice of its well-traveled square. A mascot, Nanaimo Barney, turned up at public functions, and a contest was held in the 1980s to find the ultimate Nanaimo bar recipe. Joyce Hardcastle, a widow with two children, pulled a recipe, provenance unknown, from her recipe box and decided to enter Nanaimo’s contest. Allergic to walnuts, she swapped in almonds. And she made the bars with European-style unsalted butter, rather than the salted butter that was often used. “I really think that the city didn’t want peanut butter in them, or mint or liqueur,” Ms. Hardcastle said. “I think they just wanted something basic, and that’s what I did — the really basic Nanaimo bars — and that’s what won, to my surprise.”She has since sold tea towels and aprons printed with her recipe, and has made so many bars that she can tilt her baking pan so the molten chocolate forms a topping as smooth as freshly Zambonied ice.Nanaimo, for its part, has designated local restaurants and cafes where people can try the bars, in the spirit of the food-tourism trails that two regions in Ontario have created for that other signature Canadian dessert: the butter tart.Despite all the variations on the Nanaimo bar — versions exist made with peanut butter, mocha and cranberry — there are still rules to be followed, said Ms. Olson, the pastry chef.“You’re allowed to change it and alter it, but you still have to respect the crust, filling, chocolate topping,” she said. “You can still call it a Nanaimo bar by changing up the flavors.”The buttercream takes well to flavorings, and you can experiment with the nuts in the base layer. (Though Ms. Atwood, a purist, prefers walnuts.) If you do change up the nuts, you want a tender choice, like almonds or pecans. “A hazelnut might show its texture and be too crunchy,” Ms. Olson said.Custard powder may be one reason the Nanaimo bar hasn’t spread farther south. While it is available online and at some specialty stores in the United States, it remains a relatively obscure ingredient to Americans. Some recipes say instant vanilla pudding can be used as a substitute, but that makes the buttercream clumpy, and the finished bar lacks that essential yellow hue.“I have a container of Bird’s Custard Powder that sits in my pantry because its only function is for Nanaimo bars,” Ms. Olson said. “I wouldn’t use it for anything else. I make my own custard for any other situation.”Recipe: Nanaimo BarsFollow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Katie RogersWASHINGTON — He prefers Sharpies over email. His aides cart around cardboard boxes of work papers — not laptops — for him to sift through on Air Force One. On pressing technology matters, including drones at the border, clean energy and, most recently, the evolution of airplane engineering, he prefers a nonscientific approach.In short, President Trump often operates on the theory that older is better.“Airplanes are becoming far too complex to fly,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter on Tuesday, sharing his views on the still-unconfirmed cause of an Ethiopian Airlines plane crash last weekend that killed all 157 people on board. “Pilots are no longer needed, but rather computer scientists from MIT. I see it all the time in many products. Always seeking to go one unnecessary step further, when often old and simpler is far better.”At a time when experts are citing a serious need to bolster the nation’s infrastructure and science initiatives to remain globally competitive, Mr. Trump has long used partisan language to encourage his supporters to follow him in embracing a 1950s Rockwellian approach to technology.In his continuing crusade to build a wall along the country’s southwestern border, for instance, Mr. Trump dismissed the idea of drones to secure the border. He wanted a wall, an ancient technology he has said never fails, much like its Mesopotamian cousin, the wheel.“The fact is there is nothing else’s that will work,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter in December, “and that has been true for thousands of years. It’s like the wheel, there is nothing better.”Mr. Trump added, “I know tech better than anyone.”But it is a tactic that current and former administration officials said overshadowed efforts that in any other universe would look a lot like bipartisanship: Mr. Trump, they say, has privately committed to expansions of several technological initiatives that were hatched in the Obama White House, including revamping the government’s technology system and digitizing health care records.Not that this is evident when Mr. Trump addresses the public. He tends to frame the willingness to embrace technology as a partisan issue, which his fans lap up. His mocking examination of wind power led to laughter from a crowd at the Conservative Political Action Conference this month.“When the wind stops blowing, that’s the end of your electric,” Mr. Trump said before mimicking a man trying to watch TV: “‘Darling, is the wind blowing today? I’d like to watch television, darling.’”His theatrical approach tends to dazzle fans, but it has alarmed experts who worry that the president’s analog behavior has failed to signal to Americans which technological ideas they should be excited about — or which they should be worried about — as global competitors, including China, pour money into technology initiatives like the race to master artificial intelligence.“It doesn’t put the best face forward for the United States to have a president talking that way,” Darrell West, the director of the Center for Technology Innovation at the Brookings Institution, said in an interview. “It makes us look like we’re not a scientifically literate country.”Cristin Dorgelo, who was chief of staff in the White House’s Office of Science and Technology Policy under President Barack Obama, said a commander in chief was supposed to be the nation’s most effective intermediary between the public and the science and technology communities.Mr. Obama, she pointed out, edited an issue of Wired magazine and was notorious for imbibing detailed memorandums on technology policy.“I think that we have a problem where there are people doing good work inside of the building to advance policy on technology issues,” Ms. Dorgelo said, “but a president who at the same time does not ground his remarks about science and technology in fact and in evidence.”It’s not as if Mr. Trump dismisses all technology in his public life. He likes hobnobbing with technology executives at the White House, like Tim Cook of Apple (although he called him “Tim Apple”), and has masterfully re-engineered the presidential Twitter account to serve as his e-bully pulpit. Aides say he is also adept at using his DVR systems to record television shows. Mr. Trump, after all, believes TiVo is “one of the great inventions of all time.” Mr. Trump has also used an executive order to establish a national strategy for artificial intelligence and another to develop a strategy to lead the world in fifth-generation, or 5G, cellular networks. (Mr. Trump remarked recently on Twitter that 6G would be even better.)“The Trump administration has been laser-focused on an ambitious national tech policy agenda that drives innovation and American leadership in emerging technologies like artificial intelligence, 5G networks and quantum computing,” Michael Kratsios, the deputy assistant to the president for technology policy, said in a statement. “The president cares deeply about ensuring these technologies are developed by American innovators, built by American workers and reflect American values and priorities.”Some experts are concerned that the commitment is little more than lip service. Mr. West, from Brookings, said the White House established an A.I. policy a year and a half after China announced that it planned to create an A.I. industry worth $150 billion to its economy by 2030.“It’s too little, too late,” Mr. West said. “If you’re not funding a major initiative, agencies are not going to take it seriously.”But Aneesh Chopra, who was Mr. Obama’s chief technology officer, said in an interview that in other matters there was a “surprising alignment on a number of key areas” where the Trump White House has worked to expand a blueprint left by predecessors.“I may strongly disagree with the president’s views of health care reform,” Mr. Chopra said, “but I am pleased with the president’s commitment to build on progress on the long-term technical foundation of what we refer to as a health care internet.”Mr. Chopra and several of the president’s aides credited Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, with pushing Mr. Trump to recognize the importance of some of those efforts.A key to getting Mr. Trump to respond to technological efforts, several of his advisers said, is to frame the pitch in cost-saving and customer-service terms. During a 2017 meeting to get him on board with revamping government technology systems, a project Mr. Kushner championed after helping establish the Office of American Innovation, aides said they told Mr. Trump the effort could save billions.After asking his aides what Americans would see if the systems to apply for farming loans or veterans health care benefits were redesigned, Mr. Trump eventually approved the effort. But Mr. Trump said at the time that he knew he would never get credit for it, according to two people familiar with his remarks.After all, this is the same president who said the Navy should get rid of an electromagnetic catapult system on a new aircraft carrier and replace it with an old one that used steam.“They have digital,” Mr. Trump told Time magazine in 2017. “What is digital? And it’s very complicated; you have to be Albert Einstein to figure it out.” The Navy, Mr. Trump said, told him it had to stay with digital. “I said, ‘No you’re not,’” Mr. Trump recounted. He added that the Navy had to switch to “goddamned steam; the digital costs hundreds of millions of dollars more money, and it’s no good.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressToday in HistoryToday is Saturday, April 20, the 110th day of 2019. There are 255 days left in the year.Today's Highlight in History:On April 20, 1999, the Columbine High School massacre took place in Colorado as two students shot and killed 12 classmates and one teacher before taking their own lives.On this date:In 1898, the United States moved closer to war with Spain as President William McKinley signed a congressional resolution passed the day before recognizing Cuban independence and authorizing U.S. military intervention to achieve that goal.In 1914, the Ludlow Massacre took place when the Colorado National Guard opened fire on a tent colony of striking miners; about 20 (accounts vary) strikers, women and children died.In 1938, ""Olympia,"" Leni Riefenstahl's documentary about the 1936 Berlin Olympic games, was first shown in Nazi Germany.In 1948, United Auto Workers president Walter P. Reuther was shot and seriously wounded at his home in Detroit.In 1971, the Supreme Court unanimously upheld the use of busing to achieve racial desegregation in schools. National Public Radio made its on-air debut with live coverage of a U.S. Senate hearing on the Vietnam War.In 1972, Apollo 16's lunar module, carrying astronauts John W. Young and Charles M. Duke Jr., landed on the moon.In 1977, the U.S. Supreme Court, in Wooley v. Maynard, ruled 6-3 that car owners could refuse to display state mottoes on license plates, such as New Hampshire's ""Live Free or Die.""In 1986, following an absence of six decades, Russian-born pianist Vladimir Horowitz performed in the Soviet Union to a packed audience at the Grand Hall of the Tchaikovsky Conservatory in Moscow.In 1988, gunmen who had hijacked a Kuwait Airways jumbo jet were allowed safe passage out of Algeria under an agreement that freed the remaining 31 hostages and ended a 15-day siege in which two passengers were slain.In 1992, the Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert for AIDS Awareness took place at London's Wembley Stadium. Comedian Benny Hill died in his Greater London flat at age 68.In 2003, U.S. Army forces took control of Baghdad from the Marines in a changing of the guard that thinned the military presence in the capital.In 2010, an explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil platform, leased by BP, killed 11 workers and caused a blow-out that began spewing an estimated 200 million gallons of crude into the Gulf of Mexico. (The well was finally capped nearly three months later.)Ten years ago: In Geneva, the United Nations opened its first anti-racism conference in eight years; dozens of Western diplomats walked out as Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad (ah-muh-DEE'-neh-zhahd) called Israel the ""most cruel and repressive racist regime."" (Nine countries, including the United States and Israel, were already boycotting the conference.) Medical student Philip Markoff was arrested in the death of Julissa Brisman, a masseuse he'd met through Craigslist and whose body was found in a Boston hotel. (Markoff, who also was accused of robbing two other women, took his own life while in jail in August 2010 as he awaited trial in Brisman's death.)Five years ago: Pope Francis made an Easter Sunday plea for peace and dialogue in Ukraine and Syria, for an end to attacks against Christians in Nigeria and for more attention to the hungry and neediest close to home. Rubin ""Hurricane"" Carter, the boxer whose wrongful murder conviction in New Jersey became an international symbol of racial injustice, died in Toronto at age 76.One year ago: U.S. health officials told consumers to throw away any store-bought romaine lettuce and warned restaurants not to serve it amid an E. coli outbreak that had sickened more than 50 people in several states. Wells Fargo agreed to pay $1 billion to federal regulators to settle charges stemming from misconduct at its mortgage and auto lending businesses; it was the latest punishment levied against the banking giant for widespread customer abuses. The Democratic Party filed a lawsuit accusing the Donald Trump presidential campaign, Russia, WikiLeaks and Trump's son and son-in-law of conspiring to undercut Democrats in the 2016 election by stealing tens of thousands of emails and documents.Today's Birthdays: Retired Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens is 99. Actor Leslie Phillips is 95. Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., is 83. Actor George Takei is 82. Singer Johnny Tillotson is 81. Actor Ryan O'Neal is 78. Bluegrass singer-musician Doyle Lawson (Quicksilver) is 75. Actress Judith O'Dea is 74. Rock musician Craig Frost (Grand Funk; Bob Seger's Silver Bullet Band) is 71. Actor Gregory Itzin (iht-zihn) is 71. Actress Jessica Lange is 70. Actress Veronica Cartwright is 70. Actor Clint Howard is 60. Actor Crispin Glover is 55. Actor Andy Serkis is 55. Olympic silver medal figure skater Rosalynn Sumners is 55. Actor William deVry is 51. Country singer Wade Hayes is 50. Actor Shemar Moore is 49. Actress Carmen Electra is 47. Reggae singer Stephen Marley is 47. Rock musician Marty Crandall is 44. Actor Joey Lawrence is 43. Country musician Clay Cook (Zac Brown Band) is 41. Actor Clayne Crawford is 41. Actor Tim Jo is 35. Actor Carlos Valdes (TV: ""The Flash"") is 30.Thought for Today: ""Life is made up of desires that seem big and vital one minute, and little and absurd the next. I guess we get what's best for us in the end."" — Alice Caldwell Rice, American humorist (1870-1942).Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe Arnault and Pinault families were among those who said they would devote resources and skills to the restoration of the cathedral, a symbol of French identity.By Vanessa FriedmanIn the aftermath of the fire at Notre-Dame, one of the great symbols of France, the luxury industry — another symbol of the country, thanks to names such as Dior, Louis Vuitton and Saint Laurent — has pledged hundreds of millions of euros to the cathedral’s restoration. The donations were followed on Tuesday by other pledges that soon surpassed 850 million euros, or about $960 million, and included beauty, energy, technology and finance companies as well as private individuals.On Monday, as Notre-Dame burned and flames lit the sky, the Pinault family — owners of Kering, the second-largest luxury group in France — was the first to publicly offer a significant contribution, pledging to donate €100 million to the rebuilding effort.[Black churches destroyed by arson saw a surge in donations after the Notre-Dame fire.]“The Notre-Dame tragedy strikes all French people, as well as all those with spiritual values,” said François-Henri Pinault, chairman of Artémis, the family holding company that controls Kering.“Faced with this tragedy, everyone wishes to bring this jewel of our heritage back to life as soon as possible,” he added. “Today, my father and I have committed to donate €100 million from the Artémis fund to take part in the effort needed to fully rebuild Notre-Dame de Paris.” Shortly afterward, the Arnault family and LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, led by Bernard Arnault, the richest man in France, announced that they would give €200 million.“The LVMH Group puts at the disposal of the state and the relevant authorities all of its teams — including creative, architectural and financial specialists — to help with the long work of reconstruction and fund-raising, which is already in progress,” they said. LVMH is the largest luxury group in the world. Its fashion holdings include Celine, Dior, Givenchy and Louis Vuitton. The group also owns drinks brands including Moët & Chandon, Dom Pérignon and Veuve Clicquot, as well as the landmark Parisian stores Le Bon Marché and La Samaritaine. The group reported revenue of €46.8 billion in 2018. Mr. Arnault was an early supporter of Emanuel Macron’s presidential bid, and Brigitte Macron, the French first lady, wears Louis Vuitton for most of her high-profile public events. Mr. Arnault also masterminded the Fondation Louis Vuitton, the contemporary art museum in the Bois de Boulogne designed by Frank Gehry that has helped reshape the landscape of Paris and that will ultimately become a gift to the city.For its part, Kering owns luxury brands such as Balenciaga, Boucheron and Yves Saint Laurent. The Pinault family — also among the richest in France — owns the wine estate Château Latour. The group’s 2018 revenues were €13.67 billion. François Pinault, the patriarch of the family that controls Kering, is building a contemporary art museum in the former Bourse de Commerce in the center of Paris that will be designed by the architect Tadao Ando. François-Henri Pinault, Mr. Pinault’s son, is married to the actress Salma Hayek. Kering has its headquarters in Paris, and Ms. Hayek posted a message of condolence and support on Instagram after the fire. “As many others I’m in deep shock and sadness to witness the beauty of Notre-Dame turn into smoke,” she wrote. “I love you Paris.”The two fashion groups are deeply embedded and invested in the heritage of France as a global beacon of beauty and artistic creativity, a tradition that is also carved into the stones of Notre-Dame.In recent years, the luxury industry across Europe has become actively involved in restoring historic monuments. The Italian leather goods group Tod’s is underwriting the restoration of the Colosseum in Rome for €25 million. Fendi, which is owned by LVMH, paid €2 million toward the restoration of the Trevi Fountain in the Italian capital (the company held a fashion show there when it was completed). Bulgari, a jewelry brand also under the LVMH umbrella, spent €1.5 million on the Spanish Steps in the city. And Salvatore Ferragamo, an Italian luxury goods company, has supported the Uffizi Gallery in Florence.The motives are both altruistic — supplying funds that local governments do not have in the interests of saving a joint inheritance — and self-interested — the companies clearly understand that the more closely they associate with masterpieces of history, the more they bask in their glow.In addition, when it comes to Notre-Dame, donors will benefit from a hefty tax write-off. Individuals in France can get a 66 percent discount on charitable gifts, while companies can deduct 60 percent of their corporate sponsorship expenses — which would most likely include assistance to the cathedral — from their corporation tax, though the amount is capped at 0.5 percent of turnover.However, on Wednesday the Pinault family issued a public statement saying they would not take any tax deductions for their donation. “For the Pinault family, there is no question of French taxpayers having to bear the cost of such a deduction,” they declared.The gifts from the likes of the Arnaults and the Pinaults are a reflection of how personally, and how profoundly, the fire has reached into the identity of French citizens and their businesses. Indeed, just after the announcement from LVMH, Patrick Pouyanné, the chief executive of the French energy company Total, said on Twitter that his firm would contribute an additional €100 million to the cause, and L’Oréal and the Bettencourt-Schueller Foundation, which is backed by the family that founded the cosmetics giant, pledged a total of €200 million. Offers of aid in the reconstruction effort also came from the bank Société Générale (€10 million) and Crédit Agricole (€5 million, via their foundation) and the advertising firm JCDecaux (€20 million), while the tire maker Michelin also promised a large sum and the construction giant Vinci offered to provide workers and architects. Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, said on Twitter they wold also donate to the cause, though the company has not yet specified how much. Other donors include Sanofi, Axa, and Capgemini. Their legacy will now be part of Notre-Dame’s future.Liz Alderman contributed reporting.Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.  @VVFriedman Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a look at Israeli elections, a record seizure of pangolin scales and a remarkable rail journey through the Horn of Africa.A court is expected to rule today in the case of nine activists facing public nuisance charges over months of large pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong in 2014, symbolized by the umbrellas many protesters carried. The charges carry a maximum penalty of seven years in prison.Three of the activists were founders of Occupy Central With Love and Peace, one of the main groups that urged a sit-in and demanded changes to Hong Kong’s electoral system.Background: Hong Kong was a former British colony that returned to Chinese rule in 1997 under a “one country, two systems” arrangement that allowed it more robust civil liberties than the mainland. The semiautonomous city had hoped to eventually be able to elect its leader directly, and restrictions set out by Beijing sparked the protests.Impact: The government has prosecuted 266 people in connection with the protests so far, with 118 convictions.Prime Minister Theresa May’s government met with officials from the opposition Labour Party to resuscitate stalled talks over a compromise plan for Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U., which is currently scheduled to take place on Friday.Over the weekend, Mrs. May suggested that a compromise could be worked out around immigration from the E.U., which could pave the way for maintaining close economic ties with the bloc.What’s next: The prime minister is expected to seek another Brexit extension from European leaders on Wednesday.Some French officials expressed reluctance to grant her the delay unless she had a new plan with “credible political backing” in hand.A day after the U.S. homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, resigned, the president expected the departure of the director of the Secret Service, the head of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and the department’s general counsel.The exodus appeared to be part of an effort by the president to clear out the department and steer it in a “tougher” direction.However, many immigration policy changes require congressional approval.Visas: The federal government wants to issue more visas for foreign workers to take temporary jobs in housekeeping, landscaping and other fields, even as Mr. Trump threatens to seal the border with Mexico, where most of those workers come from.The country heads into a parliamentary election today with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, one of the country’s longest-serving leaders, facing stiff competition from a new rival, Benny Gantz, a former army chief.Mr. Netanyahu has overseen healthy economic growth but this time charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust have loomed over his campaign.Political bombshell: Over the weekend, Mr. Netanyahu pledged that, if re-elected, he would extend Israel’s sovereignty over the West Bank, an apparent last-ditch attempt to woo right-wing voters.The West Bank is home to 2.6 million Palestinians. If Mr. Netanyahu carried out his promise, it could end any possibility of a two-state solution.Iran: In a move that could give Mr. Netanyahu a boost, President Trump designated an arm of the Iranian military — the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps — as a foreign terrorist organization, the first time the U.S. has made such a declaration about part of a government. Our reporter got aboard a new train service from Ethiopia’s capital, Addis Ababa, to the Djibouti coast, part of a planned network that, with China’s help, is meant to eventually span 3,000 miles.But even the existing segment offers a voyage of many discoveries.Singapore: More than 14 tons of pangolin scales have been discovered in what conservation specialists called the largest such seizure of a single shipment worldwide. Pangolins, a type of scaly anteater, are believed to be the most frequently illegally trafficked mammal in the world.Japan: Roman Catholic bishops plan to conduct a nationwide survey on sexual abuse of children by members of the clergy, church officials said on Monday.Maldives: The party of the president, Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, appeared to have won decisively in parliamentary elections over the weekend. The result may help him restore political freedoms in the country, which has an authoritarian past, and some believe he could also push back against China’s growing influence in the archipelago.Britain: The government has proposed sweeping powers to fight the online spread of violent and extremist content, false information, and harmful material aimed at children in one of the world’s most aggressive plans to regulate the internet.Snapshot: Above, a gunsmith in the Philippines crafting a pistol. Illegal gun making in the city of Danao took off in the 1960s and the trade has contributed an estimated two million unregistered guns in the country.What we’re reading: This Medium collection of interviews with writers about how they paid the bills while they wrote their books. Concepción de León, a staff writer for our Books section, recommends it, saying, “Reading about the jobs these writers worked — librarian, paramedic, apartment building superintendent — lifts the veil on the labor that made possible our favorite stories, aside from the labor of writing them.”Cook: Spicy sausage and sweet butternut squash are a perfect match for a sheet-pan dinner. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)Watch: “Dumbo,” Tim Burton’s live-action remake of the Disney tale about an airborne baby elephant, “takes a turn toward the fascinatingly weird,” our critic writes.Read: A history of the moon landing 50 years later and a new novel from Sally Rooney are among the 10 books to watch for this month.Listen: “Old Town Road,” the viral hit by the rapper Lil Nas X that set off a debate about what is, isn’t or might be country music, is the focus of our pop music podcast.Smarter Living: The kitchen-wear entrepreneur Ellen Bennett organizes her kitchen like a professional chef, to keep from having to hunt around for ingredients and tools. Her method can work for you. Separate cookware by four main functions: prep, cook, serve, store. Date and label spices, and store them in transparent containers. And good knife skills can replace any number of gadgets.And we also have guidance on securely mount your flat-screen TV.Lately, leggings have become a cultural lightning rod. But a new retrospective of the British designer Mary Quant reminds us of an earlier fashion flash point: the miniskirt revolution.Ms. Quant, a trailblazer of Swinging Sixties fashion, famously said she “didn’t have time to wait for women’s lib.” Her higher-than-high hemlines insisted on young women’s right to bare their legs.She named her trademark skirt after her favorite car, the original Mini Cooper.Pieces of clothing resembling miniskirts have been identified by archaeologists as far back as the 1300s B.C., but it wasn’t until the mid-20th century that the mini really took off. Staying true to the Hemline Index (whereby skirt hemlines rise along with stock prices), the miniskirt perfectly captured 1960s London. The trend has followed a boom-and-bust cycle ever since.Bans on short skirts are enforced in several African countries, however, and wearing a mini can prompt outrage — and even criminal arrest — in parts of the Middle East.That’s it for this briefing. And today, take some inspiration from “Dumbo”: Don’t just fly, soar.— AlishaThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Elizabeth Paton, our Europe-based Styles reporter, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode is about Russia’s campaign of state-sponsored assassinations.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Something raised during a toast (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times’s article about the controversy over leggings drew more than 1,800 comments from readers. We translated the article into Chinese: 阅读简体中文版•閱讀繁體中文版.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — For months, President Trump has been railing about the urgent need for a wall to protect against what he calls “an invasion” of illegal immigrants flooding across the southwestern border. But he has also been delivering another message: “We need workers,” he told a group of activists recently.In other words, he wants more immigrants.“I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally,” Mr. Trump ad-libbed last month during his State of the Union address.Comments like those from the president have ignited furious criticism from his hard-line, anti-immigrant supporters who accuse him of caving to demands for cheap foreign labor from corporations, establishment Republicans and big donors while abandoning his election promise to protect his working-class supporters from the effects of globalism.“This is clearly a betrayal of what immigration hawks hoped the Trump administration would be for,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates cutting legal immigration by more than half. He warned that Mr. Trump was in danger of being “not even that different from a conventional Republican.”Breitbart News, a conservative website that promotes anti-immigrant messaging, published on Thursday the latest in a series of articles attacking Mr. Trump for catering to big business at the expense of the Americans who put him in the Oval Office. “Trump Requests ‘More’ Foreign Workers as Southern Border Gets Overrun,” the site blared on its home page.“That Mr. Trump would advance the interests of the global elite ahead of our citizens would be a tragic reversal on any day,” Lou Dobbs, the Fox Business Network host, said in a televised rant against the president on Wednesday evening. “The White House has simply lost its way.”Corporations and influential corporate conservatives such as Charles G. Koch and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have long urged the president to help them recruit the talent they need by expanding the number of workers who can enter the United States from other countries.That has become more urgent as the economy has improved and as declining unemployment has made it harder for companies to find workers. To assuage their concerns, Mr. Trump has increasingly tailored his immigration talking points to cater to the needs of business executives like those who attended a business round table on Wednesday at the White House.“We’re going to have a lot of people coming into the country. We want a lot of people coming in. And we need it,” Mr. Trump said as he sat next to Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, and other executives. “We want to have the companies grow, and the only way they’re going to grow is if we give them the workers, and the only way we’re going to have the workers is to do exactly what we’re doing.”But that message runs counter to the hard-line immigration image that Mr. Trump has carefully nurtured — most recently by shutting the government down for 35 days in a failed attempt to pressure Congress to fund a wall on the Mexican border.Mr. Trump won the White House in no small part by embracing anti-immigrant messaging that tapped into the economic fears of blue-collar workers upset about losing their jobs to foreign workers. Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, he attacked undocumented immigrants as “rapists and murderers” and called for a “big, beautiful wall” along the border with Mexico.Since becoming president, Mr. Trump has aggressively sought to crack down on illegal border crossings, increase deportations, cut the number of refugees allowed into the United States and make it harder for migrants to claim asylum. He has complained about drug dealers, gangs and members of Central American caravans pouring across the border. And last summer, his administration separated thousands of migrant children from their parents in an effort to deter Central American families from trying to seek refuge in the United States.The harsh record — and comments by Mr. Trump that disparaged African nations in vulgar terms and suggested that Haitian immigrants “all have AIDS” — has earned him the enmity of Democrats and immigration activists, who call him a racist president.It is unclear whether Mr. Trump will follow through on his recent, pro-business messaging. Many of the president’s aides — including Stephen Miller, his top immigration adviser in the White House — agree with the hard-line activists about the need to lower legal immigration.In 2017, Mr. Trump endorsed the Raise Act, a Republican Senate bill that would reduce legal immigration by as much as 50 percent. And the administration is currently considering a proposal to cut immigration by denying work authorizations, known as H-4 permits, to almost 100,000 spouses of immigrants who are brought in by companies to work legally in the United States.But even so, some of the nation’s most hard-line anti-immigration activists have become increasingly nervous that Mr. Trump might waver on their primary concern — the need to shrink the number of immigrants who enter the United States each year, currently 1.1 million.They argue that tight labor markets make it exactly the wrong time to allow more foreign workers to compete with Americans. Chris Chmielenski, the deputy director of NumbersUSA, which lobbies for lower legal immigration, said companies should be pressured to hire more Americans instead.“Anything we do now to bring in more foreign workers could actually reverse some of the economic gains over the last four years,” Mr. Chmielenski said. “We’re absolutely concerned. We feel this isn’t how he ran on the issue.”Last week, in an effort to communicate that message directly to Mr. Trump, NumbersUSA began airing an ad on Fox News Channel in the hopes that the president would get the message that his supporters do not want to let in more than one million immigrants each year.“The majority of voters say the number should be cut to 500,000 or less,” the ad said. “Americans want less immigration.”Mr. Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said that companies that no longer have access to foreign workers would have no choice but to turn to Americans who are still struggling to find work: people with disabilities, teenagers, older people and even former convicts.He also said that modest increases in wages for workers would evaporate if companies were allowed to simply tap an unlimited pool of lower-paid workers from other countries.“If you want wages to go up,” Mr. Krikorian said, “you don’t import more foreign labor.”Business groups dispute that analysis. They argue that immigration expands the amount of business activity in the United States, adding jobs and increasing wages for the vast majority of American workers.“Our country has benefited tremendously from welcoming people who have contributed to our economy, our communities, across the board,” said James Davis, a spokesman for the Koch network. “We want to welcome in everyone who wants to contribute to our society. We want to see more legal immigration.”Todd Schulte, the president of FWD.us, a pro-immigration advocacy group that started with backing from Mark Zuckerberg, a founder of Facebook, said that “immigrants and immigration increase economic growth, they increase economic productivity and they increase wages for the overwhelming number of native-born Americans.”Mr. Schulte, whose group has been highly critical of Mr. Trump’s anti-immigrant messaging and policies, welcomed the president’s recognition that legal immigration is a positive thing for the United States’ economy.But he cautioned that Mr. Trump must be measured by his actions, not his words. He called on the president to halt the effort to deny the H-4 work permits to immigrant spouses.“He should stop trying to revoke the H-4 rule,” Mr. Schulte said. “Increasing legal immigration would help native-born Americans. Unfortunately, the record has been one bent on cutting overall immigration levels.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Elijah Walker(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. In an exclusive wide-ranging interview, President Trump said he will proceed on a border wall without lawmakers and dismissed any suggestions of wrongdoing in investigations that have consumed his presidency.Mr. Trump called the current negotiations over the wall “a waste of time” and indicated he will likely take action on his own when they end in two weeks: “I’ve set the table. I’ve set the stage for doing what I’m going to do.”On the topic of China, he expressed optimism at reaching a trade deal. And he denied being at odds with his intelligence chiefs, just a day after calling them “naive” on Twitter.The interview was arranged after Mr. Trump reached out to the publisher of The Times, and invited him for an off-the-record dinner. The publisher declined, saying he would prefer an on-the-record interview that included two of his reporters. Mr. Trump agreed._____2. The polar vortex continued to cripple much of the country as temperatures remained near record lows across the Midwest for a second day. Parts of the Northeast also endured subzero wind chills. Above, Chicago at sunrise.At least 21 deaths have been connected with the record-breaking cold, including a University of Iowa freshman who was found unconscious near his dorm, and who died at the hospital.The sustained cold taxed energy systems and forced the cancellation of thousands of flights and closings of schools and universities. In Milwaukee, wind chill fell to minus 50. Here’s what photographers across the frigid regions are seeing.But the cold is expected to begin to lift on Friday. By the end of the weekend, temperatures in some areas could swing up to the 40s or 50s, bringing rain instead of snow._____3. The Senate, in a stinging bipartisan rebuke to President Trump, advanced a measure opposing his moves to withdraw troops in Syria and Afghanistan.The measure, written by Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, warned that “the precipitous withdrawal of United States forces from either country could put at risk hard-won gains and United States national security.”The measure was backed by virtually every Senate Republican and will be added to a broader bipartisan Middle East policy bill expected to pass the Senate next week.But the bipartisan spirit had its limits. Mr. McConnell (above, on Capitol Hill today) called a proposal to make Election Day a holiday a “power grab” by Democrats._____4. Companies across Britain, faced with increasing uncertainty around the country’s departure from the E.U., have been stockpiling products, making backup plans and exploring new shipping routes. International banks are shifting thousands of jobs from Britain to the Continent.“It’s meant extra resources, extra overtime, to get it done,” said one executive of an auto parts factory in the Midlands of England, pictured above. “It’s incredibly annoying. It’s frustrating.”The economy is 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if Britain had voted to remain in the E.U. in 2016, according to one research institution. And investment in the auto sector was found to have plunged by almost 50 percent in 2018._____5. The cold war between the two giant companies over data use and privacy is heating up.Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, has cut off Facebook’s access to apps and updates that it was working on internally, citing violation of Apple’s rules with a research app that allowed Facebook to snoop on users’ online activity.Our tech writer sees the possibility that Mr. Cook, above in September, could become “a technology regulator of last resort — using the power of Apple’s iOS operating system as a cudgel to force software companies to respect user privacy and play by the rules, or risk losing access to millions of iPhone users.”_____6. Three people in California were indicted in a crackdown on a multimillion-dollar “birth tourism” business as part of the biggest federal criminal probe to target an industry that capitalizes on the birthright of U.S. citizenship.The businesses were dismantled following raids in Irvine, Calif., in 2015, including the one pictured above. They coached clients to falsify U.S. visa applications and pay indigent rates at hospitals where they delivered. Some Chinese couples were charged as much as $100,000 for a package that included housing, nannies and shopping at Gucci, according to the indictments.One suggested pregnant mothers indicate that they intended to stay at a Trump luxury hotel, to convince immigration officials that they were well-to-do vacationers._____7. Jason Hairston played briefly in the N.F.L., hunted with Donald Trump Jr., and owned a successful hunting gear and apparel company. For years, he was convinced he had the degenerative brain disease known as C.T.E. from his football years.When he fatally shot himself in his bedroom last September, his family and friends were shocked. Not his wife, who watched his decline up close. “We were really good at hiding it,” she told our reporter.We took a look at the history of his deterioration, and the posthumous confirmation of C.T.E._____8. Frida Kahlo meticulously built her own image as an artist in the 20th century. Now, a sweeping survey in New York examines how she did it, and why.Through her own works and collections, the show, at the Brooklyn Museum, highlights Kahlo’s skill of leaving behind a public persona that still resonates well into the 21st century. It is the biggest stateside show ever devoted to the artist. We have images of some of the exhibits here.We also have a review of “Black Leopard, Red Wolf,” the first volume of Marlon James’s “Dark Star” trilogy. The novel is packed with dizzying references fused into something new and startling, our former chief book critic Michiko Kakutani writes._____9. One hundred years ago today, Jack Roosevelt Robinson was born in a red-clay corner of Georgia.In 1947, he was a 28-year-old rookie in a Brooklyn Dodgers uniform, the first African-American to play in the major leagues in the modern era. Jackie Robinson pushed the boundaries of baseball, and by extension, the entire country.We’ve collected 100 photos of the icon — a ballplayer, a change agent, a humanitarian — and commissioned a series of essays that examine the legacy of the baseball great. (They also all appear in a special section in today’s print paper.)_____10. Finally, we end the day slightly brokenhearted.Sweethearts, the brightly colored Valentine’s Day candy that offered “Be Mine” and “Kiss Me” messages, will be hard to find this year. The factory that manufactured the conversation hearts shut down last year. Brach’s, which also makes candied hearts, is ramping up production.But there may be hope yet for Sweethearts fans. A new owner of the brand left a three-heart response on its website for adoring fans: “Miss U 2,” the hearts said. “Wait 4 Me.” “Back Soon.”Have a sweet night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing inaccurately described a picture as showing Jackie Robinson after the National League Championship in 1950. He was receiving the John A. “Bud” Hillerich Memorial Award for his National League batting title in 1949.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byOur guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.ANI CORDERO at the David Rubenstein Atrium at Lincoln Center (Jan. 31, 7:30 p.m.). The New York-based singer and instrumentalist uses music to tap into her Puerto Rican heritage, performing traditional music from the island, as well as from around Latin America (she’s worked with the Brazilian ensemble Os Mutantes, among others). Specifically, on her debut solo release in 2014, “Recordar,” Cordero paid tribute to Latin American music’s history of protest songs, offering her rendition of compositions by artists like Mexico’s Chavela Vargas and Chile’s Violeta Parra. This concert is free, and the Puerto Rican pop singer JOATA will open. 212-721-6500, lincolncenter.orgRYAN HURD at Bowery Ballroom (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.). Like many artists working to break through in Nashville, Hurd has an impressive roster of songs that he’s co-written for country stars: Darius Rucker, Dierks Bentley, Florida Georgia Line and Tim McGraw. While writing “Last Turn Home” for McGraw, Hurd met his wife, Maren Morris; now he’s guest-starring in her music videos. The songs he writes for himself are charmingly romantic, painting pictures of understated, easy affection. On “Love in a Bar” (which, naturally, is about Morris) he sings about falling hard for someone while sharing a few beers; his latest single, “To a T,” is an ode to a cozy night in. Both show his flair for believable love songs that aren’t cloyingly sweet. 212-260-4700, boweryballroom.comLES SAVY FAV at Junction (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.) and Elsewhere (Jan. 26, 7 p.m.). On Friday and Saturday, this art-punk quintet will perform their first local shows in more than two years. The band members have been experimenting with noise, pop and punk music for over two decades, but at this point — nearly nine years after their last new album, and with two members locked into a regular gig on “Late Night With Seth Meyers” — Les Savy Fav’s raucous, unpredictable live shows remain their calling card. Their gig at Junction in Long Beach, N.Y., is a benefit for Tommy Brull Foundation, an organization dedicated to helping people with special needs on Long Island; the band’s set at Elsewhere is sold out, but tickets are available through resellers. 516-889-1680, junction11561.comelsewherebrooklyn.comKACEY MUSGRAVES at the Beacon Theater (Jan. 25-26, 8 p.m.). A young country singer selling out two nights at one of New York City’s biggest theaters is newsworthy in and of itself; the fact that said country singer, Musgraves, is a woman working at a moment when country radio seems to be hostile to female artists only adds to the significance of this success. Long a critical darling, Musgraves took a pop-oriented swing with her mellow, sweet 2018 release, “Golden Hour,” and with its Grammy nomination for album of the year, she appears to have hit a home run. Tickets for both shows are available on the resale market. 212-465-6000, beacontheatre.comWU-TANG CLAN at Terminal 5 (Jan. 26-27, 8 p.m.). As part of the extended 25th anniversary celebration for their seminal 1993 debut, “Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers),” this Staten Island-bred rap group is performing two rare New York shows. Many of Wu-Tang’s nine founding members, including GZA, RZA, Method Man, Ghostface Killah and Raekwon, have found substantial success outside the group; “36 Chambers,” though, still holds importance. RZA recently told Complex of the release that “each of our lyrics are potent and become more substantiated as time goes on.” Both shows are sold out, but tickets are available through resellers. 212-582-6600, terminal5nyc.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]YOUNG DOLPH at Gramercy Theater (Jan. 31, 7 p.m.). Succeeding in rap without first rising through the ranks in one of its hubs — New York, Chicago, Atlanta or Los Angeles — is challenging. Yet Young Dolph’s commitment to representing his hometown, Memphis, remains steadfast. He’s also stayed independent, another unlikely choice for an M.C. who trades in catchy trap beats and streetwise lyrics just slightly more hard edged than the current trends on commercial rap radio. Fresh off his biggest solo success to date with the single “Major,” though, Dolph is starting to reap some rewards. The show is sold out, but tickets are available on the resale market.212-614-6932, thegramercytheatre.comNATALIE WEINERBRAXTON COOK at Baby’s All Right (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.). A gifted young alto saxophonist and vocalist, Cook is both a graduate of Juilliard’s notoriously traditionalist jazz program and a veteran of Christian Scott aTunde Adjuah’s genre-bending ensembles. In his increasingly acclaimed solo projects, Cook builds a contemporary, jazz-pop identity that draws from 1970s fusion, ’80s R&B and contemporary Los Angeles hip-hop. Through it all, he finds a way to let his bebop-rooted saxophone improvisations shine. At this concert, featuring a guest appearance from the trumpeter Theo Croker, he will draw material from “No Doubt,” an album he released late last year.babysallright.comANTONIO HART QUINTET at Smoke (Jan. 25-26, 7, 9 and 10:30 p.m.). Hart, a stellar alto saxophonist who burst onto the New York scene alongside Roy Hargrove in the early 1990s as part of the Young Lions generation, has always worn his debt to Cannonball Adderley on his cuffs. Here he presents a tribute to Adderley, an iconic hard-bop saxophonist, in a quintet that features Freddie Hendrix on trumpet, Caili O’Doherty on piano, Alex Ayala on bass and Cory Cox on drums.212-864-6662, smokejazz.comVIJAY IYER at Jazz Standard (through Jan. 27, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Iyer’s sextet has been one of the hottest commodities in jazz since the release of its debut, “Far From Over,” in 2017. A version of that band will play on Friday and Saturday, presenting Iyer’s beaming, rhythmically interleaved original music. Then on Sunday, Iyer will perform with a newer group that features some of his colleagues and students at Harvard University, where he teaches. (He’s also a MacArthur fellow.) That band is called the Ritual Ensemble, and it features Ganavya Doraiswamy on vocals, Yosvany Terry on saxophones and Rajna Swaminathan on mridangam, an Indian percussion instrument.212-576-2232, jazzstandard.comAVA MENDOZA ET AL. at H0L0 (Jan. 31, 7 p.m.). A conclave of young avant-garde improvisers will descend on this darkened basement in Ridgewood, Queens, for a night of free playing. It’s hard to know where things will go; if you go, steel yourself for a wide variety of musical textures and temperaments, most of them liberated from standard time and harmony. The performers include the thrashing, post-metal guitarist Ava Mendoza; the pensive tenor saxophonist Ingrid Laubrock; and the bassist Brandon Lopez, who uses his instrument in a variety of nontraditional ways.h0l0.nyc‘THE MUSIC OF ANTHONY BRAXTON’ at Roulette (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.). One of the premier — and most prolific — living American composers, Braxton continues to release reams of new music, typically drawing on improvisation and built around his own complex musical systems. On Friday his 12-disc collection titled “GTM (Syntax) 2017,” featuring his Tri-Centric Vocal Ensemble, comes out. Here an 11-person version of that group performs in celebration of the record’s release. Afterward, the electronic musician Carl Testa and the pianist Cory Smythe will play music from a different part of Braxton’s repertoire, using a compositional system of his called Echo Echo Mirror House Music. 917-267-0368, roulette.orgWADADA LEO SMITH at the Appel Room (Jan. 26, 7 and 9:30 p.m.). Every recording Smith releases feels apt to be called a “landmark.” It’s the awe-inspiring, wide-screen breadth of his trumpet sound, the slowly accruing power of his compositions, and his way of making even small ensembles sound spacious — and ancient. “America’s National Parks,” his widely acclaimed 2016 release celebrating the natural wonders of North America, stands out in particular for its tumultuous melodic beauty and the bristling, mutating forms of its compositions. At Jazz at Lincoln Center, Smith presents the New York City debut of this work, joined by the personnel from the album: the pianist Anthony Davis, the cellist Ashley Walters, the bassist John Lindberg and the drummer Pheeroan akLaff.212-721-6500, jazz.orgGIOVANNI RUSSONELLOAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Melina Delkic(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering a purge of President Trump’s homeland security staff, a search for a Brexit path and protests inspired by the Arab Spring.A day after the U.S. homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, resigned, the departures of the director of the Secret Service, the head of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and the department’s general counsel were expected.The exodus appeared to be part of an effort by President Trump to clear out the department and steer it in a “tougher” direction.Many immigration policy changes require congressional approval, however.Visas: The federal government wants to issue more visas for foreign workers to take temporary jobs in housekeeping, landscaping and other fields, even as Mr. Trump threatens to seal the border with Mexico, where most of those workers come from.In court: A California judge on Monday blocked the president’s efforts to force asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while their cases are adjudicated by the immigration courts.Prime Minister Theresa May’s government continued meeting with officials from the opposition Labour Party to discuss a compromise plan for Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U., which is currently scheduled for Friday.Over the weekend, Mrs. May suggested that a compromise could be worked out around immigration from the E.U., which could pave the way for maintaining close economic ties with the bloc.What’s next: The Conservative government and Labour resume talks today, and European leaders are expected to meet and consider Mrs. May’s request for another Brexit extension on Wednesday. Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, faces a decision after years of ambiguity regarding his stance on Brexit. Having accepted Mrs. May’s offer to negotiate, he will most likely face uncomfortable choices if she softens her stance and tries to tempt him with a credible compromise. Tens of thousands of demonstrators in Sudan are demanding the ouster of an autocratic ruler. In Algeria, millions of protesters forced out their own octogenarian leader last week. And in Libya, an aging general is battling to establish himself as a new strongman.The hopes inspired in 2011 by the Arab Spring uprising, or the waves of anti-government protests in Egypt, Libya, Syria, Tunisia and Yemen, are reverberating across the region, shaking autocratic governments and posing questions about the future.Protesters are seeking an end to closed and corrupt economies and authoritarian governments that are unresponsive to the public. “History repeats itself,” said one leader of the Egyptian uprising of 2011.What’s next: President Trump is expected to host President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt at the White House today. Some scholars say the upheaval is a warning of the risks of embracing such autocratic allies too closely.History lesson: Even the meaning of the Arab Spring remains contested. For authoritarian governments, it’s that popular revolutions lead to bedlam. For young people in Algeria and Sudan, it’s that nonviolent protests can oust even the most deeply entrenched dictator.The country heads into a parliamentary election today with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, one of Israel’s longest-serving leaders, facing stiff competition from a new rival, Benny Gantz, a former army chief.Mr. Netanyahu has overseen healthy economic growth, but charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust have loomed over his campaign.Political bombshell: Over the weekend, Mr. Netanyahu pledged that, if re-elected, he would extend Israel’s sovereignty over the West Bank, an apparent last-ditch attempt to woo right-wing voters.The West Bank is home to 2.6 million Palestinians. If Mr. Netanyahu carried out his promise, it could end any possibility of a two-state solution.Iran: In a move that could give Mr. Netanyahu a boost, President Trump designated an arm of the Iranian military — the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps — as a foreign terrorist organization, the first time the U.S. has made such a declaration about part of a government.Our reporter got aboard a new train service from Ethiopia’s capital, Addis Ababa, to the Djibouti coast, part of a planned network that, with China’s help, is meant to eventually cover 3,000 miles.But even the existing segment offers a voyage of many discoveries.Boeing: The company’s troubled 737 Max was built on a 1960s design, and it lacked notable safety features that have been offered for years on other planes. Our reporters look at the history behind the patchwork plane grounded after two crashes in five months.Britain: The government has proposed sweeping powers to fight the online spread of violent and extremist content, false information and harmful material aimed at children in one of the world’s most aggressive plans to regulate the internet.Italy: Matteo Salvini, the most powerful figure in Italy’s government, announced the formation of a new European alliance of populist and far-right parties ahead of critical European Parliament elections in May. France: Citizens want lower taxes and no reduction in public services, according to a three-month national consultation in which some 1.5 million French citizens let the government know what they wanted. It was President Emmanuel Macron’s strategy for sucking the wind out of the Yellow Vest protest movement. Snapshot: Poland’s governing party has made gay people its top enemy. Maciej Gosniowski, above left, one of Poland’s few drag performers, said that while the vitriol directed at gays was alarming, he noticed an outpouring of support at the same time. “The two wings of society seem to be spreading apart,” he said.What we’re reading: This Medium collection of interviews with writers about how they paid the bills while they wrote their books. Concepción de León, a staff writer for our Books section, recommends it, saying, “Reading about the jobs these writers worked — librarian, paramedic, apartment building superintendent — lifts the veil on the labor that made possible our favorite stories, aside from the labor of writing them.”Cook: Spicy sausage and sweet butternut squash are a perfect match for a sheet-pan dinner. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)Watch: “Dumbo,” Tim Burton’s live-action remake of the Disney tale about an airborne baby elephant, “takes a turn toward the fascinatingly weird,” our critic writes.Read: A history of the moon landing 50 years later and a new novel from Sally Rooney are among the 10 books to watch for this month.Listen: “Old Town Road,” the viral hit by the rapper Lil Nas X that set off a debate about what is, isn’t or might be country music, is the focus of our pop music podcast.Smarter Living: The kitchen-wear entrepreneur Ellen Bennett organizes her kitchen like a professional chef, to keep from having to hunt around for ingredients and tools. Her method can work for you. Separate cookware by four main functions: prep, cook, serve, store. Date and label spices and store them in transparent containers. And good knife skills can replace any number of gadgets.We also have guidance on how to securely mount your flat-screen TV.Lately, leggings have become a cultural lightning rod. But a new retrospective of the British designer Mary Quant reminds us of an earlier fashion flash point: the miniskirt revolution.Ms. Quant, a trailblazer of Swinging Sixties fashion, famously said she “didn’t have time to wait for women’s lib.” Her higher-than-high hemlines insisted on young women’s right to bare their legs.She named her trademark skirt after her favorite car, the original Mini Cooper.Pieces of clothing resembling miniskirts have been identified by archaeologists as far back as the 1300s B.C., but it wasn’t until the mid-20th century that the mini really took off. Staying true to the Hemline Index (whereby skirt hemlines rise along with stock prices), the miniskirt perfectly captured 1960s London. The trend has followed a boom-and-bust cycle ever since.Bans on short skirts are enforced in several African countries, however, and wearing a mini can prompt outrage — and even criminal arrest — in parts of the Middle East.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— MelinaThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Elizabeth Paton, our Europe-based Styles reporter, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode is about Russia’s campaign of state-sponsored assassinations.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Something built in a gym (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times’s article about the controversy over leggings drew more than 1,800 comments from readers.Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Adeel Hassan, Karen Zraick and Alan BlinderThe Southern Poverty Law Center said Thursday that it had fired its co-founder and chief trial lawyer, Morris Dees, after nearly a half-century, during which he helped build the organization into a fearsome powerhouse that focused on hate crimes and with an endowment that approached half a billion dollars.The group’s president, Richard Cohen, did not give a specific reason for the dismissal of Mr. Dees, 82, on Wednesday. But Mr. Cohen said in a statement that as a civil-rights group, the S.P.L.C. was “committed to ensuring that the conduct of our staff reflects the mission of the organization and the values we hope to instill in the world.”“When one of our own fails to meet those standards, no matter his or her role in the organization, we take it seriously and must take appropriate action,” Mr. Cohen said.Mr. Cohen’s statement suggested that Mr. Dees’s firing was linked to workplace conduct. He said the center, which is based in Montgomery, Ala., had requested “a comprehensive assessment of our internal climate and workplace practices” in a bid to ensure that the organization was a place where “all voices are heard and all staff members are respected.”In an interview on Thursday evening, Mr. Dees said he had reviewed the S.P.L.C.’s statement on his dismissal but noted that it did not include any specific allegations against him.“All I can say is it was not my decision,” said Mr. Dees, who added that he had limited involvement with the organization in recent years.Asked whether he had engaged in any behavior that could have been perceived as improper, he replied, “I have no idea how people take things.”Mr. Dees and the S.P.L.C. have been credited with undermining the influence of the Ku Klux Klan and extremist groups. But in recent years, the center has come under scrutiny for its classifications of “hate groups,” and whether the organization has abused that label in pursuit of a political agenda or increased donations.The center has tracked extremist activity and hate groups throughout the country since the 1980s. Its 2018 Intelligence Project report identified 1,020 hate groups, its largest number ever. Conservatives have accused the group of unfairly including right-leaning organizations on the list.Mr. Dees, the son of an Alabama farmer, sold his book publishing business to begin the civil rights law practice that would eventually become the S.P.L.C. in 1971. His co-founders were the civil rights leader Julian Bond and another young Montgomery lawyer, Joe Levin.In 1987, Mr. Dees, a skilled marketer and a shrewd legal strategist, won $7 million in damages against the United Klans of America on behalf of the family of Michael Donald, a 19-year-old black man whose body was left hanging in a tree in Mobile, Ala.An all-white jury awarded the verdict after Mr. Dees compared Mr. Donald to martyrs of the civil rights movement, like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.“They sacrificed a human being to get some publicity for the Klan,” Mr. Dees said. “He’ll go down in civil rights history in the fight for black rights. I hope your verdict goes down in history right beside him.”The center’s most recent tax documents showed an endowment of $471 million. In response to criticism about its wealth, the center has pointed to the high cost of engaging in long, complicated legal battles. Skepticism has persisted anyway.After the deadly violence at a white nationalist gathering in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017, donations to the organization came flooding in. Tim Cook, the head of Apple, announced the company would donate $1 million to the center. It also received a $1 million grant from a foundation created by George and Amal Clooney.“I am glad to see Dees leave S.P.L.C., whatever the reason,” William A. Jacobson, a professor at Cornell Law School and an outspoken critic of the group, said on Thursday.“S.P.L.C. long ago focused on combating the Ku Klux Klan, but then abused the reputation it earned for those efforts by demonizing political opponents through the use of hate and extremist lists to stifle speech by people who presented no risk of violence,” Mr. Jacobson said.But Don E. Siegelman, a Democratic former governor of Alabama, praised Mr. Dees for his contributions to civil rights.“Morris has contributed a great deal to civil rights and human rights and justice, and the pursuit of those who have committed hate crimes,” said Mr. Siegelman. He added that he had not closely monitored the organization’s recent work. (Mr. Siegelman spent years in a federal prison after being convicted of corruption charges.)In 2016, the King Center in Atlanta gave its highest honor to Mr. Dees: the Martin Luther King Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize, according to an article on the Southern Poverty Law Center’s website.It quotes Dr. Bernice A. King, Dr. King’s daughter, who leads the center, as saying that Mr. Dees “has tirelessly, and bravely championed the rights of the disenfranchised.”Previous recipients of the award include Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Cesar Chavez, Rosa Parks and President Jimmy Carter.This is not the first time the center has had to deal with public issues of workplace conduct. In 1994, The Montgomery Advertiser published an eight-part series on the S.P.L.C. that included allegations of discriminatory treatment of black employees.The report included accounts from staff members accusing Mr. Dees of being a racist, and suggested that black employees felt threatened. The center and Mr. Dees denied the accusations.Mr. Dees said he learned of his firing in an email this week. On Thursday evening, he repeatedly said he would not “say anything negative about the center or its employees.”“I’ll let my life’s work and my reputation speak for itself,” he said. “I wish the center the absolute best. We have 700,000 donors, and I think they know me and they don’t think anything negatively about me.”An earlier version of this article misstated the year that Morris Dees won $7 million in damages on behalf of the family of Michael Donald. It was in 1987, not 1981.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — After European policymakers adopted a sweeping data privacy law last year, the big question was how regulators would use their newfound authority against the most powerful technology companies.In the first major example, the French data protection authority announced Monday that it had fined Google 50 million euros, or about $57 million, for not properly disclosing to users how data is collected across its services — including its search engine, Google Maps and YouTube — to present personalized advertisements.The penalty is the largest to date under the European Union privacy law, known as the General Data Protection Regulation, which took effect in May, and shows that regulators are following through on a pledge to use the rules to push back against internet companies whose businesses depend on collecting data. Facebook is also a subject of several investigations by the data protection authorities in Europe.The ruling signals a new phase in enforcing the European law, which the region’s lawmakers and privacy groups have cheered as a check against the growing power of technology companies, while for general consumers it has led mostly to a frustrating increase in the number of consent boxes to click. The fine against Google is just the fourth penalty against any company since the law took effect.Europe’s experience is being closely watched by policymakers in the United States, who are considering a new federal privacy law. Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive officer, last week called for new rules that closely follow Europe’s.Europe has become the world’s most aggressive tech watchdog. In addition to the privacy rules, the region’s regulators have set the bar with stricter enforcement of antitrust laws against Google and other tech behemoths and taken a tougher stance against the industry’s tax policies. Google, a frequent target, was fined a record €4.3 billion last year for abusing its power in the mobile phone market.The ruling on Monday takes aim at Google’s business model, which turns data on users into narrowly targeted ads.A central element of Europe’s new regulations is that companies must clearly explain how data is collected and used. France’s data protection regulator, known as CNIL, said Google did not go far enough to get consent from users before processing data. Instead, it said, people are largely unaware of the data they are agreeing to share, or how Google plans to use the information.In a statement, the regulator said Google’s practices obscured how its services “can reveal important parts of their private life since they are based on a huge amount of data, a wide variety of services and almost unlimited possible combinations.”Google’s size — it has about 20 different services — makes its data-collection practices “particularly massive and intrusive,” the French authorities said.Google defended its policies and said it was determining whether to appeal.“People expect high standards of transparency and control from us,” a Google spokesman said. “We’re deeply committed to meeting those expectations and the consent requirements of the G.D.P.R. We’re studying the decision to determine our next steps.”The case against Google stemmed from a complaint filed by privacy groups that accused the search giant of not properly adjusting its data-collection practices to account for Europe’s stricter privacy rules.“A lot of U.S. companies have dumped everything they do in a consent box and have people waive their rights,” said Max Schrems, an Austrian lawyer who founded NOYB, one of the groups that filed the complaint, and is a longtime antagonist of American tech giants over data collection.“No one who reads it understands,” he added. “I don’t know what they do with my data, and I’m a lawyer.”Raphaël Dana, a partner at the Paris law firm Frieh Associés who specializes in privacy law, said Silicon Valley companies should expect more penalties across Europe as a result of the data protection law.“This is going to change the perspective between the profits that internet companies are able to make from the data of users, and the risk of being sanctioned with fines,” Mr. Dana said.The fine announced on Monday is far lower than the maximum penalty under the European privacy law, which is 4 percent of global revenue. For Google, that would be more than $4 billion.“The fine is immaterial,” said Johnny Ryan, the chief policy and industry relations officer at the web browser Brave. “But CNIL’s decision is very significant because it means that Google must stop building advertising profiles about people until it has properly told them what it is doing and received their consent.”Mr. Ryan said the risk to Google was that people would be startled to see how their data was used.“It is likely that many people will say no to being profiled by Google when they learn the truth,” he said.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Laurel GraeberOur guide to cultural events in New York City for children and teenagers happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘THE ADVENTURES OF ALVIN SPUTNIK: DEEP SEA EXPLORER’ at the Clark Studio Theater (March 30-31, 2 p.m.). This one-person play simultaneously evokes the ancient Greek myth of Orpheus and pressing 21st-century concerns about climate change. Winner of an outstanding solo show award when it ran at the New York International Fringe Festival in 2009, the production, from the Australian company the Last Great Hunt, takes place in a future in which the oceans have risen so steeply that the only habitable places are atop mountains and skyscrapers. LC Kids, Lincoln Center’s series for young people, has revived this work, which was created by Tim Watts, as part of its expanded offerings for theatergoers 12 and older. Incorporating animation, puppetry and music, the show follows the titular character on a volunteer mission into the ocean depths, where he hopes both to find a hospitable environment for humans and to reunite with the soul of his dead wife.212-721-6500, kids.lincolncenter.org‘ANIMANIACS IN CONCERT!’ at the Loft at City Winery (March 31, 7:30 p.m.). Many children have never seen Rob Paulsen, but they may well have heard him. A talented voice actor, he has performed such memorable animated roles as Pinky in “Pinky and the Brain,” Yakko in “Animaniacs” and Raphael in “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles” (for which he now does the voice of the new character Foot Lieutenant). At this show, he will appear with Randy Rogel, the composer for “Animaniacs,” to perform songs from that 1990s series alongside screenings of some of its classic episodes. And though it’s a school night, just remember that those cartoon numbers can be really educational.212-608-0555, citywinery.comBRICK FEST LIVE at the New York Hall of Science (March 30-31, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.). Imagine being surrounded by more than 100,000 Lego bricks. Now here’s the good news: You won’t have to pick them up and put them away. This Queens museum becomes a giant play space at this event, which invites children to view huge sculptures made from these popular building toys — like Darth Vader of “Star Wars” and Woody of “Toy Story” — and to fashion their own Lego creations. The construction areas include Neon City, featuring glow-in-the-dark bricks; Floorsaic, a collaborative place to make a 20-foot-by-20-foot mosaic; Nerdy Derby, an arena to engineer and race Lego cars; and Duplo Junior Builders, designed especially for preschoolers. (Although advance tickets are sold out, the museum will offer admission at the door.) 718-699-0005, nysci.orgKIDS ’N COMEDY: ‘MOODY AS MARCH’ at Gotham Comedy Club (March 31, 1 p.m.). Parents know that adolescents’ volatile emotional states are no joke, but tweens and teenagers themselves will mine the subject for plenty of laughs in this stand-up show. Produced by Kids ’N Comedy, an organization in which experienced comics teach young people how to write and perform, the presentation features the most talented students, who gear their material toward audience members 9 and older. The rules forbid profanity and crudity, but sophisticated humor is welcome — and expected. (Reservations are required.)212-877-6115, kidsncomedy.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]‘LAST STOP ON MARKET STREET’ at the Linda Gross Theater (March 30, 10:30 a.m.; March 31, 10:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m.; through April 13). Although this buoyant musical takes its title from a bus route, it focuses on a more expansive journey: how CJ, a sheltered, self-absorbed boy, learns not just to open his eyes to urban life but to open his heart to the rest of humanity. Presented by Atlantic for Kids, a division of the Atlantic Theater Company, the show follows CJ, played by a young adult (the appealing Jaevon Williams), as he visits his grandmother (a no-nonsense Kara Green) in an unnamed city, where he encounters the disabled, the homeless and a host of others different from himself. While “Last Stop,” adapted by Cheryl L. West from Matt de la Peña’s Newbery Medal-winning picture book, occasionally veers toward sanctimony, there’s no arguing with the power of its score, which includes rap, R&B, gospel and Latin influences. Written by the Motown master Lamont Dozier and his son Paris Dozier, these songs insist that life demands more than just going along for the ride. 866-811-4111, atlantictheater.org‘THE LIGHTNING THIEF: THE PERCY JACKSON MUSICAL’ at the Beacon Theater (March 28-29, 7 p.m.; March 30, 2 and 7 p.m.; March 31, noon and 4:30 p.m.). Percy isn’t a typical sixth grader: He happens to be a son of the Greek god Poseidon, with some unusual powers that such a status confers. Yet he also copes with problems familiar to ordinary mortals, like dyslexia, impulse control and difficulties at school. Young audiences can watch him grapple with both sides of his identity in this revival of an acclaimed rock musical that TheaterWorksUSA adapted from the first novel in Rick Riordan’s best-selling series. With a book by Joe Tracz and music and lyrics by Rob Rokicki, the show chronicles Percy’s quest to retrieve Zeus’ stolen lightning bolt and avert a war among the gods.866-858-0008, beacontheatre.comLIVING HISTORY: WOMEN, THE EXTRAORDINARY SOLDIERS OF THE CIVIL WAR (March 30, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.) and LIVING HISTORY: DEBORAH SAMPSON (March 31, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.) at the New-York Historical Society. This museum is ending Women’s History Month by saluting American female patriots who did more than cook, clean, sew and spy for the men at the front: They actually took up arms. On Saturday, a program presented by “Reenactress: The Battles of Jennie Reb & Betty Yank,” a coming documentary about female Civil War re-enactors, will feature historians portraying and discussing some of the women — thought to be as many as a thousand — who fought in the conflict (usually in disguise), as well as those who served as surgeons or uniformed vivandières (field nurses and other volunteers). On Sunday, Judith Kalaora, founder and director of the organization History at Play, will appear as Deborah Sampson (1760-1827), who enlisted in the American Revolution by pretending to be a man. (When wounded in the thigh, Sampson treated the injury herself.) Young visitors on both days can get in on the action by learning and practicing historical military drills.212-873-3400, nyhistory.orgAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin ArmstrongPORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — When Mets Manager Mickey Callaway considered the 64 bodies in his clubhouse at the start of spring training, he noted an improvement.“We have way more depth than we’ve ever had,” he said.He mentioned his stockpile of four catchers who could work in the major leagues this season. At first base, he welcomed a four-man competition among Pete Alonso, Dominic Smith, J. D. Davis and Todd Frazier.“We’re excited that it’s going to be kind of a battle royale for a bunch of positions this year,” he said.That battle has become something of a war of attrition. Within days of arriving in camp, Jed Lowrie, the utility infielder who signed a two-year contract worth $20 million in the off-season, was flown back to New York to learn that he had a sprained knee capsule. Frazier followed the same flight path to a doctor’s office a few days later with a left oblique strain that required a cortisone shot. The setbacks forced Callaway to start mixing and matching his Grapefruit League lineups before March commenced.“Unforeseen things are going to happen,” he said. “That’s just the reality of baseball.”Outfielders have not been immune to the rash of injuries. Jeff McNeil, slated to start in left field, was scratched from the lineup two days after scraping his left wrist while diving for a batted ball during a game. Center fielder Brandon Nimmo missed action because of an upset stomach after cooking chicken for himself.“We’re going to have to teach him how to cook so he doesn’t miss any more games,” Callaway said.The unfortunate has been familiar to the Mets of late. Last spring, outfielder Tim Tebow tripped on a sprinkler head during his first workout. Over the summer, pitcher Noah Syndergaard received a diagnosis of hand, foot and mouth disease. In the fall, David Wright retired because of chronic neck and shoulder ailments. All were reminders that the best plans can go sideways quickly.With opening day less than a month away, here is how the roster looks.Infielders: Who’s at first? It depends on the day. Alonso led off the exhibition season with a solo home run in his first at-bat, and Davis, who can play first or third, countered by blasting a two-run homer as he went 3 for 5 as a designated hitter.The Mets are sure-handed up the middle, with Robinson Cano bringing his nifty fielding and a smooth stroke to second base. Shortstop Amed Rosario will be a running threat on the bases, and Adeiny Hechavarria, a late pickup who previously played with the Yankees, “covers us in so many ways,” Callaway said.When healthy, Lowrie, who has primarily played at second base and shortstop but is expected to start at third for Mets, will provide versatility. So will Frazier, a veteran whose experience is valued in the clubhouse.Outfielders: Yoenis Cespedes, who is recovering from operations on his heels, is in camp and singing along to country songs in the clubhouse. But he will not be patrolling the outfield anytime soon. Callaway considers Cespedes “the icing on the cake” if he can come back for a late summer run.For now, center field belongs to Nimmo. McNeil, who may need to be called into duty at third base, will be in left, and Michael Conforto will be in right.There are plenty of legs with Juan Lagares and Keon Broxton playing reserve roles, but the Mets also need hits. Last season, only one team in the majors had fewer hits than the Mets — the Philadelphia Phillies. Conforto and Company will be counted on to put more balls in play.Starting Pitchers:According to Callaway’s calculations, the Mets should plan to use 11 or 12 pitchers this season. Jacob deGrom, who won the Cy Young Award with a 1.70 earned run average last season, and Syndergaard, who posted a 3.03 E.R.A., will anchor the rotation. Both have looked healthy in workouts and game actionZack Wheeler went 10-1 with a 1.96 E.R.A. down the stretch in the second half of last season, and Jason Vargas was 5-1 with a 2.62 E.R.A. in his final eight starts. Steven Matz will try to build off a season with 30 starts, a career high.Syndergaard started on opening day last season. He ended up with 155 strikeouts in 154⅓ innings, but missed starts because of a strained ligament in his right index finger and the hand, foot and mouth disease.The only certainty is who will take the ball on opening day in Washington.“I think Jacob decided that last June,” Callaway said.Bullpen: Cano headlined the seven-player trade that brought him back to New York during the off-season, but Edwin Diaz, the 24-year-old closer who collected 57 saves in 61 chances for Seattle last year, may be the most important part of the transaction for the Mets.Jeurys Familia, once the closer, returns as the setup man. In six and a half seasons with the Mets before he was traded to Oakland last summer, he saved 123 games and his E.R.A. was 2.66.Seth Lugo can set up, close or start.Catchers: Wilson Ramos has been well received by the pitching staff. He looks fresh after spending the off-season working on agility drills and convincing General Manager Brodie Van Wagenen that he can do the job despite twice tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee.Travis d’Arnaud is returning from Tommy John surgery, and Devin Mesoraco is back behind the plate after catching 21 of deGrom’s starts last season.Though he can play other positions, d’Arnaud will focus on catcher rather than risk injury during rehabilitation. He could be an option elsewhere, in the outfield or at first base, depending on how the team’s depth holds up.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhen Apple introduced the Apple Watch five years ago, the whole tech industry began to flirt with style. But interest in wearables has cooled. By Vanessa FriedmanA sudden, striking influx of glamorous non-techies at a tech hub in California. Grumbles about NDAs. Excited, surreptitious glances. Gossip about disruption. A drumroll for a hitherto hush-hush, industry-upsetting announcement. Sound familiar?This is not a description of what is happening today at the Apple event in Cupertino, as the company unveils its new video service and television shows (among other things). It is a description of what happened on Sept. 9, 2014, at the Apple event in Cupertino, where the Apple watch was unveiled. For those of us who remember that day, the run-up to this week has provided an eerie sense of déjà vu.Not to mention a question: What’s the deal with wearables and fashion? Five years on from the watch’s much-ballyhooed introduction, is the relationship over? Has technology found a new object for its affections?For a brief, shining moment, there was such an intense attraction. The trend wheel turns so fast these days that it is easy to forget, but take a moment, please, to remember when. Because it is possible that there is a lesson for us all buried in the end of the affair (apologies to Graham Greene).“There is this endless hunger in fashion for newness and what’s the next thing, and Apple and Silicon Valley really promises that,” said Mimma Viglezio, the editor of the digital platform ShowStudio. “So they” — we! — “just embraced it.”In advance of the watch’s introduction, Apple — which, after all, had been built on some of the principles dear to luxury, including the allure of tactile design, and planned obsolescence — began seducing glossy executives right and left to come work for the company. Most notably there was Paul Deneve, the chief executive of Yves Saint Laurent; Patrick Pruniaux, of Tag Heuer; and Angela Ahrendts, the chief executive credited with using technology to transform Burberry, who arrived at Apple to run its retail and e-tail operations with a gilded halo still fresh on her head.Front-row denizens like Alexandra Shulman, the editor of British Vogue, and Lauren Indvik, the editor of Fashionista, flew out to Cupertino in the middle of New York Fashion Week, suggesting that when it came to shows, the one in California was the one that mattered. During Paris Fashion Week, Apple had an unveiling at the super-boutique Colette and Karl Lagerfeld came. Later there was a dinner at Azzedine Alaïa’s, so designers like Olivier Rousteing (of Balmain) and models like Cara Delevingne could ogle the accessory.The watch made its magazine debut on the cover of China Vogue. Apple took out a 12-page ad in American Vogue. One year after the first unveil, also during fashion week, Apple announced a partnership with Hermès, and the following May the company underwrote the Met Gala for the “Manus x Machina” show, itself an ode to the coziness of fashion and technology (which was the unofficial dress code of the party). Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, showed up; Jony Ive, Apple’s chief design officer, was a co-host, along with Anna Wintour, the artistic director of Condé Nast and editor of Vogue. As symbolism went, the picture said it all.(Or seemed to, anyway; whether the cosiness was part of an overall fashion strategy or just a series of coincidental niceties between a company that makes glossy inanimate things and an industry that makes animate things glossy, we’ll likely never know, given how tight-lipped Apple is.)In any case, Apple was only a part of it.Samsung’s Gear S also made its fashion week debut in September 2014, courtesy of Diesel Black Gold. Intel teamed up with Humberto Leon and Carol Lim of Opening Ceremony to create the MICA smartbangle. Will.i.am introduced the “puls” cuff, inspired in part by Chanel’s signature Maltese cross cuffs. Not long afterward, Ralph Lauren introduced the connected Ricky bag with a light and a charging port (which followed its connected tennis shirt that monitored heart rate). “It’s a game changer for us in luxury,” David Lauren, the company’s executive vice president for advertising, marketing and corporate communications, said at the time.Tag Heuer, Intel and Google teamed up to make their own connected version of the Carrera watch. Louis Vuitton made a connected Tambour Horizon and described a future internet of Louis Vuitton things. It was like a smart-accessory orgy. That moment in 2012 when Google Glass strutted down the runway at a Diane von Furstenberg show and everyone cringed — even DVF could not rescue that gadget from its own nerdiness — was treated as simply an awkward early harbinger of better things to come. This was the future!The cool of California was going to rub off on the hidebound fashion world, and the glamour of fashion was going to fill consumers with desire for products. Instead of competing for the same wallet share, they would both benefit.But then Mr. Deneve left Apple. So did Mr. Pruniaux. And next month, Ms. Ahrendts departs. Intel “exited the end-product wearables area in 2017,” according to a company spokeswoman, and has pivoted to data analysis used to inform retailers and brands, among others. Will.i.am refocused on “artificial intelligence and voice-controlled computing, for B2B and B2C hardware” his representative said. Ralph Lauren no longer sells a connected bag. All the talk about wearables and fashion has gone very, very quiet.“The Venn overlap is not as great as anyone thought,” said Scott Galloway, a professor of marketing at the New York University Stern School of Business and the founder of the digital think tank L2. “Technology is essentially about creating utility and spreading it over billions of people. Fashion is about creating a moment, a trend, a romance and spreading it across a small amount of influential people.”This does not mean that wearables themselves are over (although it would be good if someone could think of a different word for the category, since theoretically it could apply to anything you put on your body).By all accounts, the smartwatch industry, which accounts for 44 percent of the “wearable devices” market, according to the research group International Data Corporation, is doing just fine. I.D.C. predicts that watches will be among the main drivers of a 15.3 percent growth in the market this year. (A new report from the NPD group said that in 2018 sales of smartwatches in the United States increased 54 percent.)In Apple’s Q1 2019 earnings call in January, Mr. Cook said that its wearables category was up 50 percent (that primarily means watches and AirPods). A spokesman for Hermès said its Apple watch was one of its most popular models. Louis Vuitton’s smartwatch accounts for half of its watch business.But while once upon a time there were rumors about other designers joining the gang, and third parties like Coach and Kate Spade have made bands for the Apple watch, the talk these days is all about the watch being a platform for health and fitness — which is also why the fitness brands (Nike especially) are still gung-ho.That does not mean fashion itself is not interested in technology. There is a lot of excitement among executives I speak to about augmented reality as a shopping tool. As far as material science and production, technology is hugely promising, especially as the industry looks more and more to sustainability.“What’s happening is it has spread into the back end of production nanotechnology and fabric,” said Amanda Parkes, the chief innovation officer of Future Tech Lab. “But that takes time to develop, like biotech.”In the meantime, a few brands are dallying with cool stuff on the side. Jimmy Choo recently unveiled a heated lace-up urban hiking boot. It warms up via a battery in the heel, and then connects to a phone app so you can control and monitor the temperature. Ralph Lauren has designed heated versions of its Polo 11 and Olympic puffer jackets (they are also controlled via an app). Vuitton introduced wireless earphones made with Master & Dynamic technology and is testing a connected suitcase. And Levi’s has been selling its Commuter x Jacquard by Google connected jean jacket since fall 2017.But the fact that all of those developments, which five years ago would have been trumpeted with drumrolls and bells and whistles, slipped in practically under the radar is reflective of the new state of … well, I wouldn’t call it estrangement, but rather a cooling off of the once heated relationship.“The connected boot is playful and was just one of those things we kind of add on when it makes sense,” said Sandra Choi, the creative director of Jimmy Choo, who added that the boot has been well received. It was not included, though, in the company’s presentation during the most recent Milan Fashion Week because it was not considered core to the Jimmy Choo identity, or even indicative of future direction.Paul Dillinger, the head of global product innovation at Levi’s, said much the same, noting that the connected jacket is positioned in Levi’s Commuter Collection, “which is a fairly niche area of the business.” When it came time for the next season’s release, instead of offering a new style or a new product, the company chose to offer the same product — with new applications. “We put the creative energy of fashion design into the jacket’s digital collateral rather than physical collateral,” Mr. Dillinger said.Mr. Galloway of N.Y.U. said the conclusion was simple: “There was only one wearable that was really a fashion statement, and that was your phone.” Which may have been the root of the problem. We thought that wherever that led, everything else would follow. Apparently not.All of which suggests we are over the fashion-tech PDAs. We’re kind of platonic acquaintances now. Every once in while it’s nice to meet up again and air kiss.So what have we learned from the last five years?Maybe that the real future of fashion and technology has nothing to do with screens.Maybe that the concept of a “hero product” that is so associated with the world of technology doesn’t really work in the context of an industry that already has its own hero products (Hollywood might take note of that one). Indeed, Mr. Dillinger said he was initially quite skeptical about the idea of the Jacquard. “I really value the objects of fashion for being what they are,” he said.It’s possible we don’t actually want our clothes, or our accessories, to do much more than they already do, which is make us feel good and be tools of self-expression, symbols of membership in a group, clues to aspirations.That’s what the phone did. And, though no one necessarily saw it coming, what AirPods and Vuitton earphones — which cost almost $1,000, but which, since their introduction in January, have sold three times more than the second-generation LV smartwatch released at the same time, and currently have wait lists — are doing: acting as visible semaphores of identity. According to I.D.C., by 2023 “ear worn devices” will be the second-largest category of wearables, accounting for 31 percent of the market. (By contrast, it predicts that smartclothes will account for only around 3 percent).In other words, that drumroll in your head? It’s actually hearables. Though personally I like “earwear” better.Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.  @VVFriedman Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with the continuing polar vortex, a dispute between Apple and Facebook, and the end of a marathon church service.The polar vortex is expected to continue today, and the high in New York is forecast to be 16 degrees, tying a city record for Jan. 31. On Wednesday, it brought temperatures as low as minus 28 in Minneapolis and upended daily life for many in the Midwest, halting planes and trains, shutting schools, and prompting officials to open emergency centers.The bitter weather is believed to be tied to at least eight deaths, and health officials warned residents to go outdoors only if necessary. For you: Exposed skin can quickly lead to frostbite. Chicagoans shared cold-weather survival tips.President Trump has accused the nation’s intelligence agencies of being “passive and naive” about the dangers posed by Iran, a day after the agencies gave their annual assessment of the biggest threats to the U.S.Lawmakers and former intelligence officials condemned Mr. Trump’s attack, calling it inappropriate and dangerous. But the president’s defenders noted the threat assessment came from the very national security establishment the president has vowed to disrupt. Side effect: President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan has offered Mr. Trump reduced costs for keeping U.S. troops in the country. Afghan officials are worried about the effects of an American withdrawal and a resurgent Taliban.Notable: The intelligence chiefs pointed out growing cyberthreats from Russia. Mr. Trump said on Wednesday that he wouldn’t intervene with the Justice Department’s decision-making process about releasing the special counsel’s report.Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, has called privacy a “fundamental human right.” On Wednesday, he and his company took aim at Facebook for violating Apple’s rules with a research app that allowed Facebook to snoop on users’ online activity. “The move is the clearest sign yet that the cold war between Facebook and Apple over data use and privacy is heating up,” our tech columnist writes.Another angle: Facebook reported record profit and 1.52 billion daily active users in the fourth quarter of 2018, suggesting that advertisers and users haven’t been deterred by a string of scandals.President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela said on Wednesday that an American intervention in his country “would lead to a Vietnam worse than they can imagine.”Washington has recognized Venezuela’s opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, as the country’s acting president and imposed sanctions in an effort to pressure Mr. Maduro. Go deeper: Mr. Maduro has called on a special police force to crack down on protesters, a potential sign of the strained loyalties inside the military he once relied on.Opposition’s perspective: Ending Mr. Maduro’s tenure requires the support of pro-democratic governments, institutions and individuals around the world, Mr. Guaidó wrote in an Op-Ed for The Times.“Nothing has brought the European Union together quite as much as Britain’s chaotic breakdown,” our chief diplomatic correspondent in Europe writes.When Britain voted to leave the bloc in 2016, European officials feared other countries would seek to withdraw. Britain now serves as a cautionary tale, though, and analysts tend to agree that the bloc will fare far better than Britain will.The impact: Retailers warned this week that the country’s food supply would be the first to feel the effects of leaving the European Union without a deal. Some businesses have been stockpiling products, exploring new shipping routes and making backup plans. A remote part of the steppes of Central Asia is inhabited by a small number of hardy souls, like the horsemen above. But a transformation looms.The Chinese government plans to turn the region, which straddles China’s border with Kazakhstan, into a major hub of its trillion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative. Fed’s reversal: The Federal Reserve left its benchmark interest rate unchanged on Wednesday, signaling that its push for higher interest rates might end sooner than expected. Factory plans in doubt: The Taiwan electronics maker Foxconn is reassessing plans for a $10 billion plant in Wisconsin that President Trump had hailed as an example of a revival for American factory jobs.Marathon church service ends: A 96-day vigil in the Netherlands came to an end after its organizers received confirmation that a family of refugees sheltering inside would no longer face immediate deportation. Dutch law forbids the police from interrupting church services. State of the Union address: An undocumented immigrant who worked at one of President Trump’s golf clubs in New Jersey  has been invited to attend his speech next week.Snapshot: Above, asylum seekers from Central America returned to Tijuana, Mexico, from the U.S. on Wednesday while their cases are processed.Late-night comedy: The weather was on the minds of all the hosts, including Jimmy Fallon: “Midwesterners were so upset, they almost started cursing. ‘Gosh darn it! It’s flipping freezing!’” What we’re listening to: The “Justice in America” podcast. “It is humbling how much I learn from this every week,” writes Caity Weaver, a writer at The Times. “I tend to traffic in fun facts but it is this weekly dose of regular facts that actually changes the way I think.”Cook: Looking for a gluten-free treat? Flourless cocoa cookies will do the trick.Read: The 12-year-old detective Flavia de Luce returns in Alan Bradley’s “The Golden Tresses of the Dead” on our hardcover fiction and combined print and e-book fiction best-seller lists.Watch: “Black Panther” will be playing for free in AMC theaters all over the country, starting Friday. Here are more tips on seeing Oscar-nominated films.Listen: “Daddi” is from Cherry Glazerr’s “Stuffed & Ready,” an album that has far more quandaries than answers, Jon Pareles writes.Smarter Living: Need to make sure your food avoids allergens? It’s easy to tell by the label when milk, eggs or nuts are in a product, but after that, it’s harder. Reach out directly to the manufacturer if you need to, and avoid items with labels that say “may contain” or “processed in the same facility as.” You can also look for foods made in allergen-free plants.We also have a look at your brain and life if you quit Facebook. The word “vortex,” derived from the Latin for “to turn,” has been in use since at least the 1600s, according to the Oxford English Dictionary. It’s cited in centuries-old scientific theories to mean a swirl of something around a central axis.The first pairing of “polar” and “vortex” is widely credited to an article published in 1853, in a magazine that Charles Dickens edited. The author, John Capper, was a merchant and journalist who lived in what’s now Sri Lanka.His article, “Air Maps,” was a somewhat florid account of the state of the relatively new science regarding wind, a crucial factor for nautical travel and trade in the era before marine engines.The patterns of the Earth’s major winds could be tracked, Capper wrote, and one “whirled about the pole in a continued circular gale: at last, reaching the great polar vortex.”These days, we know the polar vortex as those swirling winds breaking out of the polar region, bringing frigid temperatures south.That’s it for this briefing. A happy birthday to Jackie Robinson. The man who broke Major League Baseball’s color line in 1947 would have been 100 today. See you next time.— ChrisThank youInyoung Kang helped compile today’s briefing. Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and James K. Williamson provided today’s break from the news. James also wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” In today’s episode, Bob Woodward, the Washington Post reporter, discusses an error that threatened to derail his reporting about Watergate.• Starting this week, we now provide transcripts with episodes of “The Daily.”• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Nimble for one’s age (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Daisuke Wakabayashi and John KoblinCUPERTINO, Calif. — Apple unveiled a new video streaming service on Monday with a parade of celebrities rarely seen on a stage outside of Hollywood’s awards season, with heavyweight directors like Steven Spielberg and J. J. Abrams and stars like Octavia Spencer and Jennifer Aniston.Oprah Winfrey even served as the closer for the nearly two-hour event at the Steve Jobs Theater on Apple’s campus. “They’re in a billion pockets, y’all,” Ms. Winfrey said of Apple’s global reach. “A billion pockets.”As enthusiastic as the entertainment industry appears to be to work with Apple, it is increasingly clear that Apple needs Hollywood. After years of record profits, the company is slowing down. Phone sales are cooling, and despite the relative popularity of products like the Apple Watch, the next big thing has eluded the Silicon Valley giant.Now, short of another game-changing gadget and facing tough competition from rivals like Amazon and Netflix, Apple is trying to make sure you never leave all those Apple devices you have acquired over the years. The company unveiled an expansive strategy to push consumers to do more than just buy its hardware products. It has plans for new monthly subscription services for TV programming, video games and news, as well as a new credit card.The new services represent an evolution of Apple’s business. For years, Apple focused mainly on selling devices, counting on consumers to upgrade phones and tablets every few years. Now the company is keying on selling content and services for its roughly 1.4 billion active devices, which include Apple TV boxes, Apple Watches, Mac computers and iPads.The streaming service is called Apple TV Plus. After years of speculation about what an Apple alternative to Netflix might look like, the company offered few details about the new offering — but plenty of razzle dazzle. Reese Witherspoon, Steve Carell, Kumail Nanjiani, Jason Momoa and Alfre Woodard — even Big Bird from Sesame Street — also joined Apple executives on the stage.At the heart of Apple TV Plus will be new original programs. It will not carry advertising and will begin this fall in more than 100 countries. It will also include programs from other television networks like HBO, Showtime, Starz and CBS.But some of the biggest questions going into the Apple event were not answered, starting with price. The stars talked about their new programs, but the broad story lines of the shows were already known.Mr. Spielberg was the first Hollywood celebrity to take the stage, and he received the morning’s first standing ovation. “This is my first time at Apple,” he said.Mr. Spielberg was also speaking for many in the entertainment industry who were making their first trip to Apple’s campus 300 miles north from Los Angeles. Since October 2017, Apple has spent well over $1 billion on original programming. Five shows have completed filming, and another half-dozen will be finished in the coming months. Apple has ordered about two dozen series altogether.But Apple is coming late to the game. Netflix has been making original programming for seven years and will spend at least $10 billion on content this year. Amazon and Hulu have also made tremendous inroads with the industry.Apple’s entertainment foray could also lead to a culture clash. Silicon Valley and Hollywood operate in distinctly different ways: Apple prides itself on secrecy, while Hollywood runs on a wealth of information. Perhaps aware of this sensitivity, Netflix’s chief executive, Reed Hastings, began describing his company last week as an entertainment company instead of a tech company.Apple’s streaming music service has 56 million subscribers. It offers additional cloud storage for a monthly fee, and it takes a cut of the money spent on apps running on its devices, as well as a sliver of digital payments made by iPhones. Apple generated $10.9 billion from services in the last quarter of 2018, compared to $73.4 billion from hardware sales.The video service is the linchpin of Apple’s broader services push. In addition to customers paying $1,000 every two or three years for a new iPhone, Apple hopes they will also pay $10, $20, $30 or $40 a month a one-stop shop for content for all their devices.“In essence Apple is seeking to become a Netflix of everything in services; music, news and magazines, video and games,” said Paolo Pescatore, a technology, media and telecoms analyst at PP Foresight.Apple said its Apple News Plus subscription will include access to 300 magazines, including The New Yorker, National Geographic and InStyle. It will also feature newspapers like The Los Angeles Times and The Wall Street Journal. The subscription will cost $9.99 a month and is available beginning today in the United States and Canada.The subscription service builds on a free news app that the company released in late 2015 and comes installed on the company’s iOS software. Apple said about five billion articles are read monthly on Apple News.The price to be part of Apple’s paid news offering is steep. Apple is taking a 50 percent cut of the subscriptions, with the publications splitting what’s left over based on readership. Apple’s cut for news is larger than the 30 percent it takes for subscriptions bought in the App Store. Publishers expressed concern that Apple would maintain access to important consumer data such as credit cards and email addresses as part of the deal.The Wall Street Journal said its business stories and analysis would remain exclusive to its paying subscribers, but it sees an opportunity to reach a new category of readers for general interest news. The newspaper said it would add to its newsroom to support Apple News Plus. The New York Times and The Washington Post decided to not join the service.For video games, the company said it would start a subscription service called Apple Arcade this fall. It did not offer any pricing details for the service, but the company said this will allow people to try out new games. Apple said it will help foot some of the development costs for game developers.Apple also unveiled a credit card called Apple Card. Working in tandem with Goldman Sachs, the company said the new credit card is meant to work mainly on the iPhone — users can apply for the card on the phone and be instantly approved. It will reap bigger rewards if the consumer uses the card on Apple Pay, the company’s digital payment system.The credit card offers 2 percent cash back for spending on Apple Pay. Apple touted how it simplified credit card rewards with “daily cash” deposited back into the digital wallet on the iPhone shortly after purchasing an item.After its barrage of announcements, Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, introduced Ms. Winfrey. Apple signed to a deal with her in June 2018. Ms. Winfrey said she was making two documentaries for Apple’s new video service and bringing her book club to the company and turn it into the “biggest, most vibrant, most stimulating” book club on the planet.Follow Daisuke Wakabayashi and John Koblin on Twitter: @daiwaka and @koblinAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]As Beto O’Rourke moves closer to a presidential run, the unconventional way he’s spent the four months since losing his Senate bid (Metallica concerts! Road trips! Viral Instagrams!) is raising some concerns in the Democratic Party, as I wrote about today with my colleague Matt Flegenheimer.But there’s another, perhaps slightly less-covered piece of Mr. O’Rourke’s rollout story: Female Democratic strategists have grown increasingly frustrated as they’ve watched Mr. O’Rourke jump on his single-speed bike, read his emotional posts from his road trip and seen him slip into the premiere of a documentary about his Senate campaign.Imagine, they say, if Beto were Betsy. What would the reception have been if a female candidate left her three small children home and spent several weeks traveling the country, posting stream-of-consciousness diary entries? Or if she chose to forgo a Senate race that would provide a greater opportunity for victory?In quiet and not-so-quiet complaints, Democratic strategists argue that the relatively positive reception to Mr. O’Rourke’s untraditional approach is evidence, yet again, of the deep double standard female candidates face. While his defenders argue that Mr. O’Rourke can’t be blamed for gender dynamics he didn’t create, his critics say he is being given a benefit of the doubt that wouldn’t be extended to a woman or a candidate of color.“Maybe I’d been hoping for some kind of connection that day and hadn’t found it,” he wrote in one of those diary posts, from Ulysses, Kan. “I called Amy. Kids were in the car, she was a little distracted, we didn’t connect either. Maybe you could meet people at a bar she said as we hung up.”Try to picture Senators Elizabeth Warren or Kamala Harris publishing those words. The female presidential candidates, it’s probably worth noting, all pursued a highly conventional approach, jumping into the race early, rolling out policy plans and hosting events in key primary states.But the contrast that’s most often given is Stacey Abrams, whose near-miss bid for governor of Georgia earned a higher percentage of the vote than Mr. O’Rourke’s run in Texas, but who isn’t being discussed in the same way as a viable presidential candidate. She’s under immense pressure to pursue a Senate race in 2020. (Today, her political adviser pushed back on the idea that she has ruled out a presidential bid.)“If a woman was presented with a similar choice: Do that less ambitious but better for the party thing, versus more ambitious but longer shot thing, I don’t see people being super understanding when she takes the latter,” said Jess McIntosh, a Democratic strategist and former Hillary Clinton aide.We don’t know whether that sense of a free pass will translate beyond the small group of Democrats following every turn of the 2020 race. Or whether it will persist once Mr. O’Rourke actually starts, well, running. Much of that will probably be tied to how successful he is as a candidate.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________Given that we’re talking about double standards today, I highly recommend this tongue-in-cheek take on Senator Sherrod Brown’s “likability issue” by HuffPost’s Jennifer Bendery.”Have you heard the guy’s voice? It’s gravelly. It’s garbled. His Senate floor speeches sound like someone just passed the mic to Oscar the Grouch. And then there’s his fashion sense. Brown wears rumpled suits, sometimes with a tie and sometimes without.”And Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, who has put gender front and center in her campaign, may face her own #MeToo issue: Politico details the story of a former aide who resigned in protest of how Ms. Gillibrand and her office handled her sexual harassment claims.____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________The field of Democratic candidates is in constant flux these days, and it’s kind of tedious to type it all out every time someone new jumps in the race. So here’s a rundown of everyone who has recently said that they’re running, sitting it out or still thinking it over, organized by emoji.Jay Inslee, governor of WashingtonJohn Hickenlooper, former governor of ColoradoMichael Bloomberg, former mayor of New YorkHillary Clinton, former senator and presidential candidateEric Holder, former attorney generalSherrod Brown, senator from OhioJeff Merkley, senator from OregonBeto O’Rourke, former congressman from TexasJoe Biden, former vice presidentMichael Bennet, senator from ColoradoSteve Bullock, governor of MontanaStacey Abrams, former Georgia state represenatative____________________This is The Soapbox, a forum for you to share your thoughts with us and your fellow On Politics readers.Last week’s story on the statements made by Representative Ilhan Omar, and the Democrats’ response to them, clearly resonated with readers. We got over 100 emails, covering views on all sides of the issue and coming from across the country (and even a few from around the globe). Some readers felt that Ms. Omar’s statements, regardless of possible anti-Semitism, addressed an issue that is in dire need of serious political debate.Jean Davis, Washington State:I am horrified that the moderate, older Dems wanted to rebuke Ms. Omar. Her comments were perhaps ill-advised, but why should she be singled out when comments made by other public figures are much more ugly and yet are let slide?People of different generations were raised with completely differing views of Israel — my generation, the baby boomers, were taught to revere the strong new state of Israel, while people now in their 20s and 30s see the damage Israel is causing the Palestinians. Ms. Omar is of that generation and also an immigrant, and must be given some slack. Above all her First Amendment rights must NOT be trampled by Democrats!Malcolm Burnstein, California:Here is an 85-year-old Jew who strongly supports Ms. Omar, and who agrees with her that the Israeli and Aipac policies are racist and anti-Arab. If Aipac was not so cash heavy, Congress would judge its policy on the merits, and it would have little weight; and, likewise, Israeli discriminatory policy towards its Arab citizens and neighbors would merit criticism and not acceptance. At my age I witnessed the Nazi policy of murder toward Jews and I had hoped that the Jewish state would know, as no one else, how wrong and muddle headed those policies were. Alas, the Jewish state seems to have learned little from the far-to-recent past.Many others felt that Ms. Omar’s statements were plainly anti-Semitic, and that the Democratic reaction was not strong enough.Rachel Reiss, New York:Passing a resolution condemning “all hate” in response to a specific instance of pointed anti-Semitism, especially in the midst of an undeniable and disturbing upswing in anti-Semitic attacks both globally and nationally, is like passing a resolution that “all lives matter” in response to police violence against black men; it says the exact opposite of what it purports to say.David Friedland, Nevada:As a lifelong Democrat, I was upset at Ilhan Omar’s blatantly anti-Semitic, age-old canard about Jewish people having loyalty to another country. And I am equally upset at my party cowering to an increasingly tyrannical minority and failing to pass a specific resolution to a specific comment.Does not Congresswoman Omar know about Goebbels and his usage of propaganda such as “the insidious international Jewish financiers,” or the danger of “Jewish penetration of law, medicine, property, and the arts.” Has she not studied history and the power of the spoken word on a national platform?No bigotry should ever come close to being tolerated. Nor should hesitancy in unequivocally condemning a specific outburst of bigotry such as displayed by Congresswoman Omar ever be tolerated as well.And then there were those whose concerns were not the content of Ms. Omar’s statements, but the political fallout that they could have.Dave Stoller, Arizona:I applaud the enthusiasm of the congressional “newbies.” However, I say to each of them, be guided by this reality: you don’t know everything, you can’t do everything, especially all at once. You are the new kids on the block. You each need to learn how to be an effective legislator, how to communicate, how to work with other legislators, even those with whom you often disagree. Succeeding in Congress may require compromise, even with those you don’t like.Arnie Serota, Hawaii:The Democrats need to get their act together and stop infighting on divisive issues. The number one theme, for the time being, should be the defeat of Donald Trump and the far right.If you want to share your thoughts, send us an email: onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________• With a tough election looming for Benjamin Netanyahu, The Times digs into the mutually beneficial “feedback loop” between him and President Trump.• Silicon Valley searches for an IRL monument of its own.• “No trash is as glorious as Mardi Gras trash.” Bloomberg Businessweek on what, exactly, happens to all those beads.____________________Last week, President Trump called Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, “Tim Apple.” It seemed like a lighthearted gaffe, the internet chuckled for a moment, then everyone moved on. Well, apparently not everyone._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — On Jan. 19, Grant Thompson, a 14-year-old in Arizona, made an unexpected discovery: Using FaceTime, Apple’s video chatting software, he could eavesdrop on his friend’s phone before his friend had even answered the call.His mother, Michele Thompson, sent a video of the hack to Apple the next day, warning the company of a “major security flaw” that exposed millions of iPhone users to eavesdropping. When she didn’t hear from Apple Support, she exhausted every other avenue she could, including emailing and faxing Apple’s security team, and posting to Twitter and Facebook. On Friday, Apple’s product security team encouraged Ms. Thompson, a lawyer, to set up a developer account to send a formal bug report.But it wasn’t until Monday, more than a week after Ms. Thompson first notified Apple of the problem, that Apple raced to disable Group FaceTime and said it was working on a fix. The company reacted after a separate developer reported the FaceTime flaw and it was written about on 9to5mac.com, a news site for Apple fans, in an article that went viral.The bug, and Apple’s slow response to patching it, have renewed concerns about the company’s commitment to security, even though it regularly advertises its bug reward program and boasts about the safety of its products. Hours before Apple’s statement addressing the bug Monday, Tim Cook, the company’s chief executive, tweeted that “we all must insist on action and reform for vital privacy protections.”The FaceTime problem has already been branded “FacePalm” by security researchers, who say Apple’s security team should have known better. Rarely is there a software flaw that grants such high-level remote access and is so easy to manipulate: By adding a second person to a group FaceTime call, you can capture the audio and video of the first person called before that person answers the phone, or even if the person never answers.“If these kinds of bugs are slipping through,” said Patrick Wardle, the co-founder of Digita Security, which focuses on Apple-related security, “you have to wonder if there are other problematic bugs that other hackers are exploiting that should have been caught.”[Read how to disable FaceTime to avoid the eavesdropping bug.]On Monday, Apple said it was aware of the issue and had “identified a fix that will be released in a software update later this week.”But the company has not addressed how the flaw passed through quality assurance, why it was so slow to respond to Ms. Thompson’s urgent warnings, or whether it intends to reward the teenager whose mother raced to alert the company to the bug in the first place.A bug this easy to exploit is every company’s worst security nightmare and every spy agency, cybercriminal and stalker’s dream. In emails to Apple’s product security team, Ms. Thompson noted that she and her son were just everyday citizens who believed they had uncovered a flaw that could undermine national security.“My fear is that this flaw could be used for nefarious purposes,” she wrote in a letter provided to The New York Times. “Although this certainly raises privacy and security issues for private individuals, there is the potential that this could impact national security if, for example, government members were to fall victim to this eavesdropping flaw.”Unknown to Ms. Thompson, there is a healthy market for bugs and the code to weaponize them, which allow governments, defense contractors and cybercriminals to invisibly spy on people’s devices without their knowledge, capturing everything from their locations to information caught on their microphones and cameras. The FaceTime flaw, and other Apple bugs, can fetch tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars, from dozens of brokers. Those brokers then sell those bugs for ever higher sums to governments and intelligence and law enforcement agencies around the world. On the seedier side of the spectrum are brokers who will sell these tools on the dark web to the highest bidder.The only catch is that hackers must promise never to disclose the flaw to the vendor for patching, so that buyers can keep their access.The market for Apple flaws has soared in the post-Edward Snowden era as technology makers include more security, like end-to-end encryption, to thwart would-be spies. This month, Zerodium, a well-known broker and security firm, raised its reward for an Apple iOS bug to $2 million.In part to compete in that market, and reward those who do right by the company by notifying it of potentially lucrative bugs, Apple announced its own bounty program in 2016 — the last of the Silicon Valley companies to do so.At a hacker conference that year in Las Vegas, Apple made a surprise announcement: It said it would start paying rewards as high as $200,000 to hackers who responsibly turned over crucial flaws in its products. But the bounty program has been slow going, in part, hackers say, because they can make multiples of that bounty on the black market, and because Apple has taken its time rewarding them for reporting problems.The FacePalm bug is a particularly egregious case, researchers say, not just because it was discovered by a teenager simply trying to use his phone, but because it allowed full microphone and video access.“This is a bug that Apple’s Q.A., should have caught,” Mr. Wardle said. “And where there’s smoke, there’s almost always fire.”Bug brokers say FacePalm, while impressive, would not have brought a top price because it leaves a record of the attack. The flaw works only if you FaceTime the person you want to capture audio and video for, notifying your target of the call.Bugs that fetch $2 million or $3 million on the black market leave no trace, work more than 99.5 percent of the time and work instantaneously, said Adriel Desautels, the chief executive of Netragard, a company that helps firms protect their software.In this case, Mr. Desautels said, FacePalm is not as dangerous as a flaw that can covertly track someone’s location, turn on that person’s camera and capture video without a trace.But, he added, “it’s pretty good for a high schooler.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressApril 14: Country singer Loretta Lynn is 87. Actress Julie Christie is 79. Guitarist Ritchie Blackmore is 74. Actor John Shea (""Gossip Girl,"" ''Lois and Clark"") is 70. Actor Peter Capaldi (""Dr. Who,"" ''The Musketeers"") is 61. Actor-turned-racecar driver Brian Forster (""The Partridge Family"") is 59. Actor Brad Garrett (""Everybody Loves Raymond"") is 59. Actor Robert Carlyle (""Once Upon A Time"") is 58. Singer-guitarist John Bell of Widespread Panic is 57. Actress Catherine Dent (""The Shield"") is 54. Drummer Barrett Martin (Screaming Trees) is 52. Actor Anthony Michael Hall is 51. Actor Adrien Brody is 46. Singer David Miller of Il Divo is 46. Rapper Da Brat is 45. Actor Antwon Tanner (""One Tree Hill"") is 44. Actress Sarah Michelle Gellar is 42. Actor Rob McElhenney (""It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia"") is 42. Singer Win Butler of Arcade Fire is 39. Actor Claire Coffee (""Grimm"") is 39. Actor Nick Krause (""The Descendants"") is 27. Actor Graham Phillips (""The Good Wife"") is 26. Actress Skyler Samuels (""Scream Queens"") is 25. Actress Abigail Breslin (""Little Miss Sunshine"") is 23.April 15: Actress Claudia Cardinale (""Son of the Pink Panther"") is 81. Singer-guitarist Dave Edmunds is 76. Actor Michael Tucci (""Diagnosis Murder"") is 73. Actress Lois Chiles (""Austin Powers"") is 72. Actress Amy Wright is 69. Actress Emma Thompson is 60. Singer Samantha Fox is 53. Guitarist Ed O'Brien of Radiohead is 51. Actor Danny Pino (""Cold Case"") is 45. Country singer Chris Stapleton is 41. Actor Luke Evans (""The Hobbit"") is 40. Drummer Patrick Carney of The Black Keys is 39. Bassist Zach Carothers of Portugal. The Man is 38. Actor Seth Rogen is 37. Actress Alice Braga (""I Am Legend"") is 36. Singer-songwriter Margo Price is 36. Drummer De'Mar Hamilton of Plain White T's is 35. Actress Samira Wiley (""Orange Is The New Black"") is 32. Actress Leonie Elliott (""Call the Midwife"") is 31. Actress Emma Watson (""Harry Potter"" movies) is 29. Actress Maisie Williams (""Game of Thrones"") is 22.April 16: Actor Peter Mark Richman (""Dynasty"") is 92. Singer Bobby Vinton is 84. Midnight Oil singer-turned-politician Peter Garrett is 66. Actress Ellen Barkin is 65. Actor Michael Gill (""House of Cards"") is 59. Singer-bassist Jason Scheff (Chicago) is 57. Singer Jimmy Osmond is 56. Singer David Pirner of Soul Asylum is 55. Actor-comedian Martin Lawrence is 54. Actor Jon Cryer is 54. Actor Peter Billingsley (""A Christmas Story"") is 48. Actor Lukas Haas is 43. Broadway actress Kelli O'Hara is 43. Actress Sadie Sink (""Stranger Things"") is 17.April 17: Actor David Bradley (""Game of Thrones"") is 77. Musician Jan Hammer is 71. Actress Olivia Hussey is 68. Actor Clarke Peters (""Treme"") is 67. Rapper Afrika Bambaataa is 62. Actor Sean Bean (""Lord of the Rings"") is 60. Actor Joel Murray (""Dharma and Greg,"" ''The Artist"") is 57. Singer Maynard James Keenan of Tool and of Puscifer is 55. Actress Lela Rochon is 55. Actor William Mapother (""Lost"") is 54. Actress Leslie Bega (""The Sopranos"") is 52. Actor Henry Ian Cusick (""Scandal,"" ''Lost"") is 52. Actress Kimberly Elise is 52. Singer Liz Phair is 52. Rapper-actor Redman is 49. Actress Jennifer Garner is 47. Singer Victoria Beckham of the Spice Girls is 45. Actress Lindsay Korman (""Passions"") is 41. Actor Tate Ellington (""Quantico"") is 40. Actor Charlie Hofheimer (""24: Legacy"") is 38. Actress Rooney Mara (""The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo"") is 34. Actress Dee Dee Davis (""The Bernie Mac Show"") is 23.April 18: Actor Robert Hooks is 82. Actress Hayley Mills is 73. Actor James Woods is 72. Actress Cindy Pickett (""Ferris Bueller's Day Off"") is 72. Keyboardist Walt Richmond of The Tractors is 72. Bassist Jim Scholten of Sawyer Brown is 67. Actor Rick Moranis is 66. Actor Eric Roberts is 63. Actress Melody Thomas Scott (""Young and the Restless"") is 63. Actor John James (""Dynasty,"" ''The Colbys"") is 63. Bassist Les Pattinson of Echo and the Bunnymen is 61. Actress Jane Leeves (""Hot In Cleveland,"" ''Fraiser"") is 58. Ventriloquist Jeff Dunham is 57. Talk show host Conan O'Brien is 56. Actor Eric McCormack (""Will and Grace"") is 56. Actress Maria Bello is 52. Actress Mary Birdsong (""Reno 911!"") is 51. Actor David Hewlett (""Stargate: SG-1"") is 51. Actress Fedro Starr (""Moesha"") is 48. Actor David Tennant (""Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire"") is 48. Guitarist Mark Tremonti of Creed and of Alter Bridge is 45. Singer Trina of Trina and Tamara is 45. Actress Melissa Joan Hart (""Sabrina the Teenage Witch"") is 43. Actor Bryce Johnson (""Pretty Little Liars"") is 42. TV personality Kourtney Kardashian is 40. Actress America Ferrera (""Ugly Betty"") is 35. Actor Tom Hughes (""Victoria"") is 34. Actress Ellen Woglom (""Marvel's Inhumans"") is 32. Actress Vanessa Kirby (""The Crown"") is 31. Actress Alia Shawkat (""Arrested Development"") is 30. Actress Britt Robertson (""Under the Dome"") is 29. Actress Chloe Bennet (""Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,"" ''Nashville"") is 27. Singer Nathan Sykes of The Wanted is 26. Actor Moises Arias (""Hannah Montana"") is 25.April 19: Actress Elinor Donahue (""Father Knows Best"") is 82. Keyboardist Alan Price of The Animals is 77. Actor Tim Curry is 73. Singer Mark ""Flo"" Volman of The Turtles is 72. Actor Tony Plana (""Ugly Betty"") is 67. Death Row Records co-founder Suge Knight is 54. Country singer Bekka Bramlett of Bekka and Billy is 51. Actress Kim Hawthorne (""Greenleaf"") is 51. Actress Ashley Judd is 51. Singer Luis Miguel is 49. Actress Jennifer Esposito (""Blue Bloods"") is 47. Actress Jennifer Taylor (""Two and a Half Men"") is 47. Singer Madeleine Peyroux is 45. Actor James Franco is 41. Actress Kate Hudson is 40. Actor Hayden Christensen (""Star Wars Episodes II and III"") is 38. Actress Catalina Sandino Moreno (""Che,"" ''Maria Full of Grace"") is 38. Actress Ali Wong (""American Housewife"") is 37. Actress Victoria Yeates (""Call the Midwife"") is 36. Drummer Steve Johnson of Alabama Shakes is 34.April 20: Actor George Takei (""Star Trek"") is 82. Singer Johnny Tillotson is 81. Actor Ryan O'Neal is 78. Keyboardist Craig Frost of Grand Funk Railroad is 71. Actor Gregory Itzin (""24"") is 71. Actress Veronica Cartwright (""Aliens"") is 70. Actress Jessica Lange is 70. Actor Clint Howard is 60. Actor Crispin Glover is 55. Actor Andy Serkis (""Lord of the Rings"") is 55. Country singer Wade Hayes is 50. Actor Shemar Moore (""Criminal Minds"") is 49. Actress Carmen Electra is 47. Actor Joey Lawrence (""Blossom,"" ''Brotherly Love"") is 43. Multi-instrumentalist Clay Cook of the Zac Brown Band is 41.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.In a sharp reversal of the stance it took just week ago, the Fed’s chairman, Jerome Powell, said yesterday it had “the luxury of patience” in deciding whether to raise rates again, writes the NYT’s Binyamin Appelbaum.The news: The Fed left its benchmark interest rate unchanged, a decision that was widely expected. What surprised markets was the indication that rates, which are in a range of 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent, would stay put for some time.The reaction: Mr. Powell’s comments soothed Wall Street, sending stocks higher, something President Trump cheered on Twitter. But the U-turn puzzled some investors and one warned of a slowing economy.More: In a separate statement, the Fed signaled that it might reduce “quantitative tightening,” the policy of selling its bond portfolio, which could be a challenge for Mr. Powell. Here’s a guide to what’s going on.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Advertisers pay for space expecting to reach potential spenders.Facebook, which says it has access to 2.32 billion people, seems like a prime avenue of exposure. But how many are spammers, scammers or flat-out fakes? Jack Nicas, who explored the social media network’s fluctuating, confusing account estimates, reckons even Facebook may not be sure.Yesterday, the company said in tiny lettering at the bottom of a slide about its earnings that it believes that there are 116 million fake accounts on its site, a 36 percent increase from 2017’s figure, which was itself 359 percent higher than the number disclosed in 2016. Its estimated number of duplicates rose 20 percent year over year, to 255 million.How many unauthorized accounts does Facebook take down each quarter? Enough to encompass as much of 35 percent of the network’s active users, data suggests. And some analysts suspect that the company’s user counts involve more guesswork than it lets on.But the money keeps coming in: Facebook emerged from a string of privacy scandals last year with a 30 percent boost in revenue and a 61 percent upswing in profit. Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, confirmed that Facebook plans to integrate the technical infrastructure of its WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger apps by the end of the year or by early 2020.A bot scandal reaches a conclusion: The attorney general of New York reached a settlement with Devumi, a company that sold hundreds of millions of fake followers on Twitter and other platforms before going out of business last year.Is Apple’s Tim Cook Facebook’s privacy watchdog? After determining that the social network had violated the rules of an Apple developer program, Mr. Cook moved to block access. Our columnist Kevin Roose wonders whether Mr. Cook is becoming a technology regulator of last resort.The Arctic air mass sweeping across the Midwest and the Northeast brought a deep and sometimes deadly chill that caused traffic to snarl and the ground to crack.It is so cold that shops have closed, restaurants have shuttered and petting farm owners are struggling. Any lasting effect on commerce should be slight, however.It is so cold that, in Wisconsin, beer distributors stopped truck deliveries out of fear that their cargo would freeze solid. Amtrak canceled trains. Six in ten flights into and out of Chicago were canceled. Airlines have waived fees for changing flights. One towing company in Michigan received 40 calls for help in three hours.It is so cold that all of Cargill’s grain plants in the Midwest are closed, some shifts at a Tyson Foods pork plant in Iowa have been canceled and the hog slaughter has paused at a Hormel Foods facility in Minnesota.It is so cold that Disney on Ice has called off a performance in Chicago.It is so cold that General Motors has suspended production at several plants in Michigan because of an emergency appeal by the local utility, overwhelmed with heating demand.It is so cold that Republicans and Democrats are reaching across the aisle in Washington so they can huddle together for warmth. Just kidding.Facebook had company from other tech firms when reporting its earnings yesterday.Nokia, which now focuses on telecom equipment, warned that it would have a slow start to 2019, though it expects more business from companies building 5G mobile networks later in the year. Samsung, whose operating profit plunged 29 percent amid a decline in demand for memory chips, also said earnings this year might struggle. PayPal disappointed analysts, too, even as its revenue rose.But Qualcomm beat Wall Street expectations and issued a forecast that assuaged some concerns about a weak smartphone market in China. Other companies also had good news.Microsoft, often considered an indicator of the broader market, said that its commercial and consumer businesses were doing well, with revenue and profit increasing more than 10 percent from a year earlier. Its continued shift to cloud computing has placed it within striking distance of Amazon, which leads the field.Alibaba, China’s largest e-commerce business, said that its earnings growth sank last quarter and that its revenue, which rose 41 percent, had increased at its slowest pace since early 2016. Executives said that, while “the slowdown of macro might cause concerns in the market,” the company had minimal exposure to the trade war with Washington and e-commerce was healthier than the overall Chinese economy.Tesla, the electric carmaker, reported its second straight quarterly profit, but said that its $139 million in fourth quarter earnings was less than what it brought in during the third quarter. The company expects to deliver as many as 400,000 cars this year, up from 245,000 last year. And it said it had $3.7 billion in cash to carry it through a $920 million bond payment in March.Foxconn, the Taiwanese electronics behemoth, is rethinking its plan to build a $10 billion plant in Wisconsin with 13,000 jobs, a proposal that was hailed by President Trump. It’s now considering a shift toward research, underscoring the difficult economics of manufacturing in the United States, write the NYT’s Natalie Kitroeff, Patricia Cohen and Monica Davey:That turn runs counter to Mr. Trump’s vision for the project, which he had cited as a milestone in reversing the decline in factory jobs. The twist also brought new friction in Wisconsin, where the initiative has been politically fraught from the start because of its billions of dollars in tax subsidies.Foxconn said that it remained committed to creating 13,000 jobs, but economists questioned how such a large work force could be created if the plant’s focus was on other areas.A lack of clarity over the terms of Britain’s looming departure from the European Union has British businesses stockpiling products and delaying investments, writes the NYT’s Peter Goodman.The options: Parliament may yet approve Prime Minister Theresa May’s unpopular exit deal — she survived a critical vote on Tuesday that could have derailed it — especially if the alternative is a tumultuous no-deal departure.The reaction: Companies must plan for outcomes both wildly unknown and potentially damaging. They are making backup plans while having no idea how it will end.The cost: By one estimate, the British economy is already 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if voters had backed E.U. membership in a 2016 referendum. The main culprit is uncertainty. Investment in the auto industry plunged last year. The cost of separation is apparent in finance, housing and other areas, too. Food retailers have warned of delays and shortages.More European news: Two engines of the eurozone economy, France and Germany, are cooling, a trend that threatens to deepen the pain across the Continent. Italy fell into a recession in the last quarter of 2018 after its economy shrank by 0.2 percent.Zach Kirkhorn will become Tesla’s chief financial officer after Deepak Ahuja retires. (Bloomberg)Deals • General Electric said it would merge its battery storage and electrical grid units into its wind turbine and hydropower business, and suitors are gathering for the jet leasing unit of its lending business, GE Capital. (Reuters, WSJ)• United Natural Foods accused Goldman Sachs of improperly extracting more than $200 million while advising it on its acquisition of the grocery chain Supervalu. (WSJ)• Elliott Management, an activist hedge fund, is making a push into full-blown takeovers. (WSJ)Tech • Apple is said to be planning a more powerful 3-D camera for iPhones, to help with augmented reality plans. (Bloomberg)• Lyft sued New York State over its minimum wage for drivers. (WSJ)Politics and policy• Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, approves of higher taxes for the rich, if the revenue is spent in a way that he considers wise. (Bloomberg)• President Trump called top intelligence officials who had contradicted him “naïve.” (NYT)• Starting in April, 5,340 more immigrants with an advanced degree from an American university may be selected for a coveted visa. (WSJ)• Lawmakers introduced legislation to limit Mr. Trump’s power to impose import tariffs. (Reuters)Best of the rest • Muslims have petitioned Nike to recall its Air Max 270 shoes, which are said to feature a design on the sole that resembles “Allah” in Arabic script. (Bloomberg)• Nearly 30 percent of company directors in Australia are women, up from 19.4 percent in 2015, leapfrogging the U.S., Britain and Canada in female representation in the boardroom. (FT)• More than $4 billion was paid out over the past decade to members of the Sackler family, which owns the drugmaker Purdue Pharma, even as sales of the opioid painkiller OxyContin waned, according to court documents. (WSJ)• Beer companies, casinos and other corporations are funneling record amounts into the U.S. wind and solar power industry, taking advantage of plunging costs, favorable tax breaks and a public relations boost. (WSJ)• Hedge funds are displaying levels of risk aversion that would be expected after a financial crisis. (Bloomberg)• Former U.S. intelligence operatives helped the United Arab Emirates spy on its enemies using technological techniques taught by the federal government. The secret operation was known as Project Raven. (Reuters)• It’s an election year in India. Gold consumption is likely to increase. (Bloomberg)• Sri Lanka’s constitutional crisis — in which the president and prime minister have faced off — has forced it to borrow heavily from China. (WSJ)• Phillips, a boutique auction house, sold $916.5 million of art and collectibles last year, the most in its 220-year history. A 1932 painting by Pablo Picasso fetched $57.8 million; a Rolex watch known as “The Unicorn” sold for $5.9 million. (Bloomberg)• A breakdown of the Super Bowl ad market, with a look at the beer company that spends the most. (WSJ)• Chinese consumers and their desire for handbags, Hennessy and other luxury products from LVMH helped add $4.3 billion to its chief executive Bernard Arnault’s fortune. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Friday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAnd what that tells us about the fate of Apple in China.By Yuan RenMs. Ren is a writer and a former editor at Time Out Beijing.I got my first iPhone during Chinese New Year in early 2012. It wasn’t anything I’d aspired to own. I wasn’t particularly techy, nor could I afford the brand as a graduate with a starting salary.But at a dinner with an old friend of my father’s, the friend gave me, along with other knickknacks, an iPhone 4. My gift came with a caveat, however: It wasn’t the sought-after 4S that had caused a frenzy around the country after its release in January. Mine was a simple iPhone 4 — released in 2010, and by then considered already past its prime as a formal gift. That meant I was almost certainly a secondary or even tertiary receiver of the phone — China’s gift-giving culture is all about regifting — but back then, the Apple brand carried enough cachet that my father’s friend still saw it as good enough to give a close friend’s daughter, if not quite prized enough to present to a business partner.That was back when Apple was still the phone to own for a Chinese person on the make, and when people like my father and his friends — mostly older, and in senior positions in large organizations — were still caught up in the legend of the Apple product, even though most of them, including him, had no idea how to use most of the features. That didn’t matter; it was enough to know that iPhones were “the best.” Their global reputations came with an assurance of both status and quality.What’s happened in the interim? A lot. When Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, warned investors on Wednesday that the company was facing slowing sales in China, the wider world seemingly greeted the news that Apple had lost its China mojo with shock. But for those who are smartphone users in China, the news just confirmed what we already knew: China’s domestic brands have made huge strides in the years since 2012, creating new features and products that take into account what Chinese users want, for a small fraction of the price. Apple, meanwhile, has mostly failed to localize or reinvent itself, on the assumption that global cachet would be enough.The homegrown groundswell began with a little-known brand called Xiaomi, which burst onto the scene in the early 2010s as one of the first brands in China to have its own operating system, and offered high-speed processing on the cheap. At first it appeared to cater to a completely different market than Apple. Selling entirely online, Xiaomi offered both a low-end model — the Redmi for as low as 699 yuan (then under $150) — and a higher-end model that was still far cheaper than the cheapest iPhone (less than 2,000 yuan, then under $350).But with time, the useful features on Xiaomi products, as well as those of its competitors like Huawei and OPPO, combined with the price, began to outweigh the increasingly limited glamour of the iPhone. I myself transitioned to a high-end Xiaomi from an iPhone in late 2015 after a young professional friend of mine, who worked in marketing in Shanghai, raved about the Xiaomi Mi Note, which is one of the big-screen models, or “phablets,” that have long been popular in China and East Asia, where many prefer the bigger screens — Huawei’s latest measures a whopping 7.2 inches — ideal for taking selfies and watching TV dramas. (Apple released its Plus series in late 2014 with larger handsets, which did send its sales shooting up in China — but also added $100 to an already expensive price tag.)Apple also long resisted the rise of another important local feature: the dual SIM card system, a component that may sound boring but for Chinese people has become essential. In China, where many young people have never owned laptops, phones have become all-in-one devices — part television, part computer, part phone. Transitioning between two SIM cards on all other cell brands is a seamless process: one card for streaming and downloading at cheaper rates, the other one for making calls. Growing international tourism has also raised demand for phones that can accommodate a second, foreign SIM — and yet for years, Apple didn’t budge. The company finally gave in to the dual SIM card in the form of special models for China and Hong Kong last fall.It’s telling that the main example of Apple localizing its products to China in the last few years was a special model gold-colored iPhone. First introduced in 2013, it was a clear play for the Chinese market, and was, admittedly, a huge hit on the mainland. Many joked that the gold iPhone was targeted at the tuhao, a recent term that roughly translates as “tasteless nouveau riche” and that mockingly refers to the wealthy who feel the need to show off. The color was even given the name tuhao jin, or tuhao gold.But the allure of gold-colored plating — a feature focused not on user experience but aesthetics — goes only so far, it seems. And it may not be enough at this point to keep even the tuhao loyal. Huawei, China’s largest smartphone maker by market share, recently overtook Apple to move to second place globally. Its popularity among the wealthy and business class at home has shot up in recent years; its prices have been steadily rising as it shifts focus toward higher-end products. Many upper-middle-class Chinese who once owned iPhones have since switched to Huawei — including my dad.As China has moved online en masse, it has, perhaps, surprised some analysts who believed that the appeal of high-end brands as status symbols would drive decision-making for years into the future. It turns out that Chinese consumers care about user experience, too (and price, of course).But the iPhone hasn’t lost all of its luster. A civil servant friend of mine was still offered a brand-new iPhone as a “gift” in 2016; I’ve yet to hear of anyone who was bribed with a Huawei. Yuan Ren is a writer and producer from Beijing.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this article misstated when the author replaced her iPhone with a phone made by Xiaomi. It was in late 2015, not early 2014.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byON LOCATIONWhat could be better than renting a 200-year-old house as a weekend escape? Building a new glass-and-stone home and running an organic farm there.13 PhotosView Slide Show ›By Tim McKeoughAfter renting a 200-year-old farmhouse on 230 acres in Stanford, N.Y., for four years, Soo Kim and Carolina Gunnarsson couldn’t imagine any better place for a weekend escape from Manhattan.“We loved it so much. It’s very secluded; the only neighbors were cows,” said Ms. Gunnarsson, 32, a founder of Fit Pregnancy Club, a prenatal fitness studio in SoHo. “It was always our dream that we would be able to buy it.”So in 2012, when the owner suggested she might be willing to sell, Ms. Gunnarsson and Mr. Kim, 43, who works in finance, bought it for $2.8 million.In the beginning, they had a few changes in mind. They wanted to clear some of the overgrown farmland, add a pool and build a modest addition to the house.They knew the architects they wanted to hire: Hayes and James Slade, the husband-and-wife principals of Slade Architecture, who had designed Mr. Kim’s SoHo bachelor pad years earlier and had a house of their own in nearby Millbrook, N.Y.For about a year, the architects worked on plans for an addition as the project expanded to include space for a larger family. At the time, Mr. Kim and Ms. Gunnarsson had a newborn, but they suspected more children would be in their future. Today, they have three: Annalisa, 6, Gustav, 3, and Ragnar, 1.By the time they finished adding rooms to the proposed structure, it dwarfed the original building. “It became the addition that ate the house,” Ms. Slade said.After a pause, they decided to start over and design an entirely new house slightly farther up the hill, leaving the farmhouse intact as a guesthouse.For the new 4,600-square-foot house, the Slades conceived a home formed by two overlapping, perpendicular boxes. One box, which sits low on the hill beside a retaining wall, is clad in dry-stacked local stone and Cor-Ten steel shutters. It contains the private functions, including five bedrooms, a family room, a study and a mudroom (plus a playroom in the basement). The other box sits on top, with a living room, dining area and large open kitchen wrapped in floor-to-ceiling glass.“The glass house has 360-degree views, totally unobstructed in every direction,” Mr. Slade said, noting that such transparency can occasionally feel too exposed, especially at night. “So then you have this other space, the stone house, which is much more contained and private.”The house has green roofs for camouflage, because the property is within the view corridor of Wethersfield, a historic estate with museums and gardens open to the public, and Mr. Kim and Ms. Gunnarsson didn’t want their home to stick out like a shiny modernist trinket. The glass walls also reflect the landscape during the day, Mr. Slade said, so “it’s a little bit stealth.”Beyond blending into the surrounding fields, the house is designed to be green in its energy use. After studying the position of the sun at different times of year, the architects designed roof overhangs for the glass portion that allow sunlight inside during the winter but create shade during the summer. There is a geothermal heating and cooling system, and photovoltaic panels for electricity are planned for the future. And some of the cabinetry and paneling inside the house is made with wood from the property’s cherry trees.Reed Contracting began construction in the spring of 2015, and Mr. Kim and Ms. Gunnarsson spent their first few nights in the house on Thanksgiving weekend of 2017, as the finishing work continued. The house was finally completed last spring at a cost of about $700 a square foot.Now, aside from serving as their country getaway, the property is an active organic farm with cows, chickens, pigs and sheep, managed by a local farmer. Mr. Kim and Ms. Gunnarsson also own the nearby Big Rock Community Farms Market, which sells products from many area farms and small-scale food producers. The original farmhouse has proved to be an ideal guesthouse for visitors like Ms. Gunnarsson’s parents, who live in Sweden and come to stay for weeks at a time.After struggling to imagine anything better than the farmhouse when they were renters, the couple have since come around.“I love cooking, and being able to stand in our kitchen and look out at the views,” Ms. Gunnarsson said earlier this month. “Last week, it was minus-11 degrees outside, and I could cook in the kitchen, be nice and cozy, but still feel like I was outside the whole time. We’re that close to nature.”For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Here’s what to watch for. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)President Trump is optimistic about striking a trade deal with China — but Chinese officials are hesitant, according to Keith Bradsher and Ana Swanson of the NYT:“Beijing officials are wary” that what currently looks like a positive trade deal for them, which doesn’t require big changes to the economy, could turn bad, Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson explain. They worry about “Mr. Trump’s propensity for last-minute changes,” according to unidentified sources.Those fears could derail a planned summit meeting between President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China, where Mr. Trump hopes to sign a deal. “Persuading Mr. Xi to attend such a summit meeting is no easy task, given his imperative of appearing strong before a domestic audience,” Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson note.“The biggest barrier to a deal continues to be the enforcement of terms,” Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson add. “The United States has insisted that it retain the right to raise tariffs if China violates the agreement, without retaliation by Beijing. But some Chinese officials have criticized the arrangement as a potential infringement of China’s sovereign rights.”More: China exports and imports both fell in February, as an economic slowdown and trade fights weighed on the nation.The dust has settled on Mark Zuckerberg’s surprise announcement that the social network would refocus its business on privacy. Now, people are starting to dissect what, exactly, the news means for its business model.“Facebook is entering a transition phase where it will continue to sell targeted ads on its public social networks, while inventing a new business model,” Thomas Husson, a senior analyst at the research company Forrester, told the FT. In other words, think of it as less of a pivot and as more of a diversification.So it will “still gather data from its existing sources,” Christopher Mims of the WSJ writes, “but also increasingly from messaging apps. These would double as interfaces with businesses and, eventually, usurp the functions of our credit cards and digital wallets.” Expect to see Facebook make announcements about payments, commerce and its own crypto token in the not-too-distant future.Diversification is a play for long-term survival, especially if regulators clamp down on the mass collection of data and targeted ads that have been the company’s bread and butter. The faster Facebook can spin up alternative revenue streams — and acting as a global payments network could be a lucrative one — the better its chances of continuing to grow.Bank of America released a report yesterday, on the eve of International Women’s Day, that shows the state of the global disparity in wealth between men and women. There’s reason for both hope and dismay, according to Ortenca Aliaj of the FT.The good:• The report says that improving women’s equality could raise global growth over the next six years by $28 trillion — or, as Ms. Aliaj writes, “roughly the same as the U.S. and China’s combined annual economic output.”• Women are expected to control $72 trillion of global financial assets by 2020, double what they held in 2010.The bad:• “The economic gender gap is closing at a ‘snail’s pace’ and it could take another 202 years to reach equality at the current rate.”• “Women in western Europe might start earning the same as men for the same roles in 60 years, while women in North America might have to wait another 165 years, the report calculated.”• “Data compiled from more than 10,000 respondents showed that men were more optimistic about higher pay rises over the next year while women expected to perform at least two and a half times more unpaid work than men.”More: The private equity and venture capital industries have $3 trillion in assets under management — but female entrepreneurs receive just a fraction of it, according to a new report.As Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant, takes the U.S. government to court over a ban limiting the use of its products in federal agencies, the company has won the support of its government.• “We support relevant companies and individuals to take up legal weapons to safeguard their rights and interests, and not be silent lambs,” Wang Yi, Beijing’s top diplomat, said at a news conference yesterday.• “What we’re standing up for is not just the interests of a company, but also a country or nation’s legitimate right to innovate and by extension the basic right of all countries who wish to climb up the technology ladder,” he added.But Mr. Wang’s comments don’t address U.S. claims that Huawei equipment could be used by China to spy on American communications. As CNBC notes, Chinese law suggests that domestic companies are legally obligated to help the government with intelligence work — and may be forbidden from talking about it.With less than a week to go before Parliament makes a final vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal, she is expected to try to shift the focus from Britain to the E.U.“Just as MPs will face a big choice next week, the E.U. has to make a choice too,” Mrs. May is expected to say in a speech today, according to the BBC. “It is in the European interest for the U.K. to leave with a deal.”“The decisions that the European Union makes over the next few days will have a big impact on the outcome of the vote,” she will add, referring to her hope that European officials will make binding legal changes to the Irish border details of her deal. Those look necessary if Mrs. May is to win over lawmakers.Such a public plea for compromise shows how tough the negotiations have been. “Talks are expected to continue into the weekend,” Bloomberg notes. “If they fail, Parliament will likely vote against May’s deal for the second time, plunging the country into political chaos.”Just a few months ago, the European Central Bank put the brakes on a vast economic stimulus program. Yesterday, it unexpectedly reversed course, Jack Ewing of the NYT writes:• The E.C.B. voted unanimously “to bring back a stimulus measure intended to encourage lending. The move will help banks in countries with weaker economies like Italy that may have trouble raising money on capital markets at reasonable rates.”• “The bank also pushed back the date of its earliest possible increase in benchmark interest rates by at least four months.”• “The quick turnabout, from confidence to concern, reflects the broader weakness in the global economy. A slowdown in China, exacerbated by rising trade tensions with the United States, has reverberated around the world, dragging down growth in Europe and elsewhere.”• “Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, implicitly blamed White House policies for the economic damage behind the decision. ‘Lower confidence produced by the trade discussions’ was a key cause of economic slowdowns in Europe, China and emerging markets, Mr. Draghi said.”• “He added, though, that he did not expect a recession.”You might think that Martin Shkreli, the “pharma bro” imprisoned for fraud, would have curtailed his business efforts. You’d be wrong, as Rob Copeland and Bradley Hope of the WSJ point out.• “Wielding little more than a contraband smartphone, the disgraced pharmaceutical executive remains the shadow power at Phoenixus AG,” the company that, under a different name, drew outrage for jacking up the prices of rare drugs.• He conducts drug research from the prison’s computer lab and, until recently, tweeted insults at the likes of Jack Dorsey of Twitter.• His friends at a prison in Fort Dix, N.J., include inmates like “Krispy” and “D-Block.” (Their reported nickname for Mr. Shkreli is unprintable here.)• “A few weeks ago he rang up his handpicked chief executive during a safari vacation — to fire him, according to a person familiar with the exchange.” That was later changed to a suspension.• “His back-of-the-commissary-envelope calculation indicates that Phoenixus could be worth $3.7 billion by the time he is due to be freed in 2023, according to a person familiar with his thinking.” His business plan involves buying rare drugs and spending on research and development.• But minority shareholders in the company are tired of Mr. Shkreli’s behavior. “This investment is an absolute disaster,” Sabine Gritti, one of those investors, told the WSJ.Uber, Lyft, Airbnb, Slack and a host of other Silicon Valley companies are poised to go public this year, making employees and investors who own shares very rich. Nellie Bowles of the NYT explores how they plan to spend their wealth:They will push up real estate prices. The Bay Area, known for its unaffordable housing, may get even pricier. “People are like, ‘I’m not going to sell till next year, because there are going to be bajillionaries everywhere,’” Herman Chan, a real estate agent with Sotheby’s, told Ms. Bowles.There will be parties. Companies that go public want to celebrate, and hospitality companies are happy to oblige. One planner told Ms. Bowles that start-up I.P.O. party budgets can exceed $10 million, adding, “They’re wanting to bring in A-list celebrities to perform at the dinner tables for the executives.”Trophy purchases will be made. But wealth advisers are trying to persuade new clients to show a little restraint. “I don’t think a lot of them think there ever could be a downturn,” Ryan S. Cole of Citrine Capital told the NYT, adding, “They shouldn’t be buying boats.”Jan Stahlberg, a co-founder of the Swedish private equity firm EQT, is leaving to start an impact-investing fund.Deals• Norway gave its sovereign wealth fund permission to sell off its holdings in pure-play oil companies. (Bloomberg)• Airbnb agreed to buy HotelTonight, a site for last-minute hotel bookings. (NYT)• A group led by Amazon and the New York Yankees is reportedly close to buying the YES Network, the Yankee’s regional sports channel, from 21st Century Fox for about $3.5 billion. (NY Post)• SoftBank announced a new $5 billion fund to invest in Latin American start-ups. (WSJ)• The billionaire family that controls the maker of OxyContin has been dropped by Hildene Capital Management, a hedge fund that had managed some of their money. (WSJ)Politics and policy• House Democrats are looking into claims that President Trump wanted the White House to block AT&T’s bid for Time Warner. (CNBC)• The Labor Department proposed expanding overtime eligibility to cover most salaried workers earning less than $35,000 a year. (NYT)• Michael Cohen sued the Trump Organization over what he says are $1.9 million in unpaid legal fees. (NYT)• Paul Manafort was sentenced to 47 months in prison in one of two cases against him, well below federal guidelines. (NYT)Tech• Wall Street is betting on business software because of the sector’s fast growth. (FT)• Elon Musk’s federal security clearance is at risk over his pot use. (Bloomberg)• Facebook announced a plan to curb vaccine misinformation. (NYT)• Tim Cook changed his Twitter handle to “Tim Apple”— after President Trump misidentified him during a meeting this week. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Carlos Ghosn’s lawyer explained why his client left jail in disguise — and admitted that it didn’t work very well. (WSJ)• Governments and investors are taking a new interest in Africa. Will it play out better for Africans this time? (Economist)• Modern Monetary Theory is gaining favor among American politicians. But should we try it out in a smaller country first? (Upshot)• Philadelphia has become the first U.S. city to ban cashless stores. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" Advertisement

      By CHARLIE WARZEL and 
    
STUART A. THOMPSON

APRIL 10, 2019

On June 9, 1999, Google made a pledge to its small but growing number of customers in a blunt 600-word statement. “Google is sensitive to the privacy concerns of its users. The internet allows individuals to explore and communicate with unprecedented ease, but it also allows websites to collect and distribute personal information with equal ease. We at Google know that many users are, understandably, concerned about such practices.”The statement, which today reads like a quaint artifact of a simpler time, would become the company’s first privacy policy — a gently lawyered explanation of how the company collects and distributes its users’ data and information. Google’s was far from the first privacy statement from a big technology business, but it’s one of the first examples of the form from a company that helped lay the foundation for the modern, information-guzzling internet.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what's at stake and what you can do about it.]  And it wasn’t only Google that was “sensitive to the privacy concerns of its users.” All of today’s tech giants have made similar commitments.In 2002, the Microsoft founder Bill Gates declared, “Users should be in control of how their data is used.”Three years later, Facebook, through its founder, Mark Zuckerberg, echoed the statement in a note to its campus user base, “We give you control of your information.”Similar statements from countless technology companies have followed in the years since. Over that time, they have said they would like to protect your privacy ...… even as many companies began to collect and display information invasively.Technology companies have also tried to explain all the ways they protect your privacy ...… but the rhetoric was different from reality, where a number of companies experienced hacks and data breaches.Since the early 2000s, companies have argued that despite all the data they collect, you still own it ...… and yet default designs and settings and lax security have long left information vulnerable.Finally, since the advent of concerns about Google and Facebook’s use of personal data for advertising,  companies have pointed out that they don’t sell your data …… and nonetheless many of the companies' business models are predicated on a targeted advertising model that relies on the continued collection of increasingly personal information.It’s been almost 20 years since Google’s first privacy statement. The internet today is a significantly different place, one that’s largely powered by the transmission and transfer of our personal information. Data breaches — some of vertiginous scale — are common, as is the creeping sense that, in order to log on, we’re forced to submit to being tracked and targeted.But if the modern internet has changed greatly, the statements from the multinational corporations that transformed it have remained strikingly similar. The tech companies and their leaders have been saying we should be in charge of our information for 20 years. So why — now, more than ever — does it feel that we aren’t?Charlie Warzel, a New York Times Opinion writer at large, covers technology, media, politics and online extremism. He welcomes your tips and feedback: charlie.warzel@nytimes.com and @cwarzel. Stuart A. Thompson is the graphics director for The New York Times OpinionThe Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.The New York Times is launching an ongoing examination of privacy. We’ll dig into the ideas, history and future of how our information navigates the digital ecosystem and what’s at stake.See all Privacy articlesFrom the NewsroomApril 13, 2019See all Privacy articlesAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)As of this morning, Lyft is officially the first in a new wave of Silicon Valley companies to begin trading on the public markets, Michael de la Merced and Kate Conger of the NYT report.The ride-hailing service is now valued at more than $24 billion, after robust investor demand helped Lyft price its initial public offering last night at $72 a share, up from its first price range of $62 to $68. The company sold more shares than planned, raising over $2.3 billion.It begins trading on the Nasdaq this morning, under the ticker symbol LYFT. Investors will be anxious to see how big a “pop” its shares will enjoy. Some analysts have already given it a “buy” recommendation.Lyft’s stock sale will yield a windfall for its investors, including Rakuten of Japan, G.M. and Andreessen Horowitz. The company’s co-founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, will become multimillionaires.But a big challenge lies in sustaining its valuation. Lyft is deeply in the red — it lost nearly $1 billion last year — and has told investors that it will remain so for some time. Matt Phillips and Erin Griffith of the NYT note that early investors captured the biggest gains, making it unclear how much is left for the public market.Tim Sloan, who took over Wells Fargo as the bank became embroiled in scandal, abruptly resigned yesterday, as the lender remains mired in legal battles.He became C.E.O. in 2016 after his predecessor, John Stumpf, resigned amid growing scandals at Wells Fargo. (Among them: the opening of sham accounts in customers’ names and improper customer fees.) Mr. Sloan was supposed to help the bank move on.But Mr. Sloan became a lightning rod, as employees complained about a toxic workplace culture and lawmakers and regulators fumed over a lack of reform at the bank. “I could not keep myself in a position where I was becoming a distraction,” he told investors yesterday.Critics welcomed the news. Senator Elizabeth Warren, who had called on regulators to oust Mr. Sloan, tweeted, “About damn time.” Shareholders also appeared relieved, with Wells Fargo’s stock rising 2 percent in after-hours trading.He’ll be replaced on an interim basis by Allen Parker, Wells Fargo’s general counsel and a former partner at the law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore. Mr. Parker got the job in part because he has good relationships with the bank’s regulators, according to the NYT.The Department of Housing and Urban Development accused Facebook in court yesterday of engaging in housing discrimination, Katie Benner, Glenn Thrush and Mike Isaac of the NYT write.• H.U.D. says that the social network allows advertisers “to restrict who is able to see ads on the platform based on characteristics like race, religion and national origin.”• It also says Facebook “uses its data-mining practices to determine which of its users are able to view housing-related ads.”“The lawsuit coincides with a broader push by civil rights groups to scrutinize whether big technology companies are reinforcing real-world biases online by using algorithms to identify and target specific groups of users,” Ms. Benner, Mr. Glenn and Mr. Isaac write.Facebook now faces federal investigations into its business practices from H.U.D., the F.T.C., the S.E.C. and the Justice Department.More: The company has tightened rules on political ads in Europe ahead of the European Parliament elections in May.Carlos Ghosn’s vision of merging Nissan and Renault was controversial within the companies. And according to the WSJ, it was Nissan executives’ fears over France taking a stake in one of Japan’s top companies that led to his downfall.Senior Nissan executives “wanted to derail any possibility of a full combination of Nissan and Renault, which they feared Mr. Ghosn was pushing,” according to the WSJ, which cites documents and unnamed people.They feared French control of the automaker, the WSJ adds. “Two Nissan executives, determined to halt further corporate integration, instigated a probe of Mr. Ghosn, chasing longtime rumors of wrongdoing, until they found evidence of alleged financial crimes to give prosecutors,” the WSJ writes.“The men initiated the probe in April 2018, the same month the French government, which holds a 15 percent stake in Renault, laid out the reasons it wanted a merger,” it adds.Merger discussions have indeed been stymied. The question now, according to Hiroko Tabuchi of the NYT, is whether the rifts are too deep to repair.For two years, March 29, 2019, was supposed to be the day that Britain departed from the E.U. That hasn’t happened.Brexit has now been delayed to at least April 12. Before then, Prime Minister Theresa May — who on Wednesday offered to resign in order to save her Brexit deal — will try once more to win support for her agreement.Lawmakers are trying a new tack to push the deal through. “Ministers said they would disassemble Mrs. May’s deal into its two parts — one called the withdrawal agreement, and the other the political declaration — and ask Parliament to vote Friday only on the first,” Benjamin Mueller of the NYT writes.But the withdrawal agreement is contentious. The document, which outlines the terms of Brexit, doesn’t have backing across Mrs. May’s Conservative Party, nor from Unionist allies in Northern Ireland. But it may appeal to some pro-Brexit Labour Party lawmakers whose issues are with the political declaration, which outlines Britain’s future relationship with Europe.If the agreement passes today, Parliament will meet the E.U.’s deadline for completing the Brexit process, and would have until May 22 to extract Britain from the bloc. If not, Britain could crash out without a deal on April 12 — or it could ask for a longer extension.The team studying the recent 737 Max 8 crash in Ethiopia has reportedly reached a preliminary conclusion, according to the WSJ: Glitchy automated anti-stall software activated shortly before the plane crashed.• “The emerging consensus among investigators, one of these people said, was relayed during a high-level briefing at the Federal Aviation Administration on Thursday.”• It is “the strongest indication yet that the same automated system, called MCAS, misfired in both the Ethiopian Airlines flight earlier this month and a Lion Air flight in Indonesia, which crashed less than five months earlier.”• “The preliminary finding from the ‘black box’ recorders of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 is subject to revisions, according to the people briefed on the matter.”Boeing announced a series of fixes for the anti-stall system on Wednesday. It said that based on what was known about the crashes, MCAS was in need of updating.The first quarter of this year was the third-best for deal-making in two decades, according to data from Refinitiv. But that’s thanks largely to three mega-mergers, without which 2019 would be off to a miserable start.• 8,765 transactions worth $927.2 billion were announced in the quarter. That’s a 30 percent drop in the number of deals and a 17 percent drop in their dollar volume compared with the same period last year.• Bristol-Myers Squibb’s $74 billion takeover of Celgene, Aramco’s $69.1 billion bid for Sabic and FIS’s $34 billion offer for Worldpay helped keep M.&A. volumes up.• Deal makers feel like there’s room for improvement. “We’ve been very happy in terms of big deals but we need more deals overall,” Anu Aiyengar, the head of North American M.&A. at JPMorgan Chase, told the FT.• The fear that’s slowly putting clients off deal-making, according to some advisers: recession.New York State’s attorney general sued the Sackler family, which controls the OxyContin maker Purdue Pharma, yesterday, accusing it of siphoning money from the drugmaker and erasing a paper trail.• “The New York lawsuit alleges that Sackler family members abolished quarterly reports, insisted that numbers be recounted only orally to board members, and voted to pay themselves millions of dollars, often through offshore companies.”• It also accuses the Sacklers of setting up a new drug company, Rhodes, in 2007 to shift the opioid business away from Purdue. (Rhodes eventually overtook Purdue in market share for opioids.)• “The lawsuit also goes well beyond other cases in spelling out in granular detail how pharmaceutical distributors played a role in the opioid epidemic by ignoring blatant ‘red flags’ that indicated mountains of opioids were being diverted for illegal use.”• The Sacklers and Purdue denied the allegations.It’s well-known that President Trump exaggerated his riches to make himself seem wealthier. But David Farenthold and Jonathan O’Connell of the WaPo obtained his so-called “statements of financial condition” — and showed how he embellished the truth.Many figures in the documents weren’t verified, even though they were prepared by his accountants. Instead, the accountants simply wrote down what Mr. Trump described. “In the compilation process, it is not the role of the accountant to assess the values,” one of them said.That led to inflated figures like Mr. Trump claiming that he owned a 2,000-acre vineyard in Virginia (real size: 1,200 acres) or that an estate he owned in Westchester County, N.Y., was worth $261 million (local authorities’ assessment: $20 million).But Mr. Trump may be shielded from fraud claims over some of these documents, because his accounting firm explicitly said it couldn’t vouch for the figures, legal experts said.Morgan Stanley’s president, Colm Kelleher, will retire on June 30, after having helped stabilize one of Wall Street’s most prominent investment banks.Kazuo Hirai, Sony’s chairman and former C.E.O., is retiring.Campbell Soup has named Keith McLoughlin, who served as interim C.E.O. last year, as its new chairman.Barclays has hired Kristin DeClark from Deutsche Bank as co-head of its U.S. equity capital markets business and head of its tech equity capital markets team.Deals• States like New York are reportedly considering suing to block T-Mobile’s proposed deal for Sprint, even if the Justice Department approves the transaction. (Bloomberg)• Wow Air, a low-cost Icelandic airline, shut down yesterday after failing to find a last-minute financial lifeline. (NYT)• Saudi Aramco reportedly plans to issue $10 billion worth of bonds to help finance its $69 billion deal for control of the petrochemical company Sabic. (WSJ)Politics and policy• Democrats questioned how accurately Attorney General William Barr’s four-page letter to Congress summarized Robert Mueller’s 300-page report. (NYT)• While Mr. Trump called on OPEC to lower oil prices, his administration reportedly took the rare step of meeting with the oil cartel. (WSJ)• Senator Amy Klobuchar, who’s running for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020, proposed a $1 trillion infrastructure investment plan. (NYT)Trade• American and Chinese trade officials resumed negotiations today after what Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said was a “productive working dinner” last night. (CNBC)• China is offering foreign companies better access to its cloud-computing market as a concession in those trade talks. (WSJ)• Canada may help its canola farmers after China restricted imports of their crops. (Bloomberg)Tech• Huawei may be struggling to convince the world that it’s not a security threat, but its revenue soared to $105 billion last year, up nearly a fifth from 2017. (NYT)• The F.C.C. has fined robo-callers $208 million since 2015. But it has managed to collect only $6,790. (WSJ)• Apple’s Tim Cook and Qualcomm’s Steven Mollenkopf are scheduled to testify in a trial that is part of a continuing legal battle between the two companies. (Bloomberg)• Goldman Sachs is reportedly developing a subscription service for Wall Street data. (Business Insider)Best of the rest• Lawyers for Nigeria have sued JPMorgan Chase over $900 million withdrawn from a government bank account by corrupt former officials. (NYT)• American companies more than quadrupled the amount of foreign earnings they repatriated from offshore accounts last year. (WSJ)• A majority of revenue at Wirecard, the German financial-payments company, comes from referral partners — some of whom aren’t as significant as described. (FT)• A top shareholder advisory firm has a new benchmark for measuring C.E.O. pay: “economic value added.” (Fortune)• How a woman accused of being a con artist duped a bank out of $100,000: “She understood the financial jargon.” (Sky)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Andrea Kannapell(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with the pending release of the Mueller report, North Korea’s weapons test and the climate protests in London.For nearly two years, questions have swirled around the role Russia played in the 2016 U.S. election and whether President Trump obstructed justice during the ensuing investigation. On Thursday morning in Washington, a redacted version of the special counsel’s nearly 400-page report will finally be made public.The New York Times will be offering live updates and analysis of the key findings. Here’s what to expect. Congressional Democrats, reporters and many Americans will make a beeline to the section that addresses why the special counsel, Robert Mueller, decided not to draw a conclusion about whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice — a gap Attorney General William Barr filled with his own determination that the president had not.In the White House: Justice Department officials had numerous conversations with White House lawyers about the report’s conclusions, our reporters were told, allowing Mr. Trump’s advisers to prepare rebuttals. The disclosure raises more questions about the propriety of Mr. Barr’s actions. Some of Mr. Trump’s advisers are concerned about whether he will retaliate against them if the report reveals them to be sources of damaging details. Read for yourself: The redacted report is to be posted on the special counsel’s website.Individuals, companies and institutions have already given or pledged 850 million euros, or about $960 million, to the reconstruction of the fire-ravaged cathedral, and Prime Minister Édouard Philippe announced plans for an international competition to design a new spire. But the spectacle of French billionaires trying to outdo one another with gifts that may win them tax breaks quickly intensified resentments over inequality that have flared during the Yellow Vest movement.Saving the treasures: The Paris Fire Department’s chaplain, the Rev. Jean-Marc Fournier, has emerged as a central figure in the mission to rescue artworks, artifacts and relics from the blaze. He described to our reporter how he and 100 firefighters carried the precious pieces to safety as molten debris showered down. Detailing the fire: Our interactive graphic takes you inside Notre-Dame’s attic, where the blaze started.They’ve glued themselves to the top of a London commuter train, staged a group yoga class on a major bridge and occupied major landmarks. And hundreds have been arrested since Monday, in a civil disobedience campaign demanding immediate government action on climate change. “We’re not trying to be a nuisance and bother commuters,” said Luis Silva, a member of Extinction Rebellion, the activist group that organized the protests, “but we need to shake people for them to understand that this is a global emergency and we all have to participate to avert the impending disaster.” Validation: The protesters’ cause was bolstered — whether intentionally or not — by Mark Carney, the governor of the Bank of England, who warned the financial sector that it faced an existential threat from climate change and urged international banks to take immediate steps to prepare. International plan: Extinction Rebellion says it has organized demonstrations in more than 80 cities across 33 countries, to be held in the next few days. North Korea said today that it had test-fired a new type of “tactical guided weapon.” There was no evidence the test involved a nuclear detonation or an intercontinental ballistic missile.Experts said it was likely that the test was a demonstration of a conventional weapons system, perhaps artillery or an antiaircraft system, and amounted to signal-sending by the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.Analysis: Mr. Kim has held off on nuclear and long-range missile tests, meeting twice with President Trump in hopes of persuading the U.S. to lift crippling sanctions. Mr. Kim may be raising the stakes by suggesting that the moratorium — Mr. Trump’s signature foreign policy initiative — could collapse before the 2020 elections.During Susan Wojcicki’s tenure as chief executive of YouTube, she has had to contend with uploads of pedophilia and mass murder. Yet she has largely kept a low profile and escaped the public scrutiny that her peers on other platforms have faced.To get a sense of what she was like as a leader, our reporter spoke to more than a dozen current and former employees, and Ms. Wojcicki herself — three times.Science: In a study that raises profound questions about the line between life and death, researchers restored some cellular activity to brains removed from slaughtered pigs. A bioethicist called the brains “partly alive.” Venezuela: The first airlift of a large-scale relief campaign landed on Tuesday, and relief workers are grappling with how to deliver aid in a crumbling, divided, violent country. Sudan: Former President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, who has not been seen publicly since he was deposed last week, has been moved to a prison in Khartoum, the capital.Peru: Former President Alan García shot himself in the head and died as the police tried to arrest him in a major corruption case.Candida auris: Our reporter reconstructed the case of a woman who died in February at a major hospital in Chicago, a rare portrait of a drug-resistant infection that few institutions have discussed even as it appears around the world.Snapshot: Above, the video board announced that a Manchester City goal had been disallowed in the final moments of its second-leg quarterfinal match against Tottenham Hotspur in the Champions League. Tottenham lost the match, but by a small enough margin to advance to the next stage.Lionel Messi: Barcelona’s triumph on Tuesday over Manchester United reveals a genius in full bloom, our soccer reporter writes. Beyoncé: The singer released “Homecoming,” a previously unannounced live-album version of her performance last year at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, just as Netflix began streaming a documentary about the career-defining set.What we’re reading: This piece from The Bulwark. “It’s a compelling counterpoint to the idea that being gay and running for president isn’t a big deal in 2019,” says Jeremy Peters, our national political reporter. “Tim Miller’s reaction to Pete Buttigieg kissing his husband onstage at a rally is a reminder that this is still very new.”Cook: Use leftovers to make salmon fried rice.Watch: Roxann Dawson’s faith-based film, “Breakthrough,” tells the story of a miraculous ordeal with an unassuming simplicity, our critic writes.Go: An exhibition at the Arab World Institute in Paris looks at how soccer shapes and reflects the Arab world. (Some of the photos are online.) Read: The Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer Robert A. Caro shares insights into his craft in “Working,” which is new this week on our hardcover nonfiction and combined print and e-book nonfiction best-seller lists. You can find all our best-seller lists here.Smarter Living: Movie buffs are anticipating the coming blockbuster season. If movie subscription services are available to you, make sure you’ll get your money’s worth. Check out which supports more of the films you want to see, and which works at the theaters you go to most often. Read the fine print — some services have limits on the number of films you can see, or when you can see them.And we have recommendations on affordable, reusable stand-ins for plastic one-and-done straws, spoons and containers.Thailand’s king is Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun. That is not his entire name. But that is all we publish in The Times.The leader of the Future Forward Party, which shocked the Thai military establishment in last month’s elections by coming in third in the popular vote, is Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit. Family names — a 20th-century innovation in Thailand — are constructed to be distinct, and that often means extra syllables.If foreigners find Thai names to be a mouthful, so, apparently, do Thais, who use nicknames in everyday life. Many people are called Lek (Thai for small), Nok (bird) and Poo (crab and, please, it’s pronounced closer to “boo”).This writer’s younger son has played soccer against an Ice, a Python and a Barcode. A girl in our building is called DTAC, which is the name of my cellphone operator.But the length of people’s names is nothing compared with the full name for Bangkok, the Thai capital. It starts with Krungthep Mahanakhon Amon Rattanakosin Mahinthara Ayuthaya and continues for 45 more syllables.That’s it for this briefing. See you on the other side of the Mueller report. — Andrea Thank youKatie Van Syckle helped compile today’s briefing. Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and Kenneth R. Rosen provided the break from the news. Hannah Beech, our Southeast Asia bureau chief, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode is the start of a two-part series about abortion.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Toss in the trash (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The New York Times has more than 30 international bureaus around the world. More than a few have cats. An earlier version of this briefing misstated the result of Wednesday’s quarterfinal match between Manchester City and Tottenham Hotspur. Tottenham lost; it did not win, although the margin of the defeat meant that it did advance to the next stage of the Champions League.Andrea Kannapell leads the international team that produces the Morning, Evening and Weekend Briefings.  Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen Hiltner and Inyoung Kang(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with updates from Paris, unofficial results from Indonesia’s presidential election and Beyoncé’s surprise live album.Days after a fire devastated Notre-Dame cathedral, France is shifting its focus to reconstruction. President Emmanuel Macron set an ambitious timeline of just five years, and Prime Minister Édouard Philippe announced plans for an international competition to design a new spire.Individuals, companies and institutions have so far donated or pledged 845 million euros, about $950 million, to the cause. But the spectacle of French billionaires trying to outdo one another with gifts that may win them tax breaks quickly intensified resentments over inequality that have flared during the Yellow Vest movement.The investigation: Witnesses are still being interviewed to determine the cause of the fire.But it is clear that fundamental safeguards — like firewalls or a sprinkler system — were absent by choice, to avoid altering the cathedral’s design or heightening the risk by introducing electrical wiring to “the forest,” the network of ancient wooden beams that supported the roof.See for yourself: Our interactive graphic takes you inside Notre-Dame’s attic, where the fire started.Unofficial results from Wednesday’s election showed that President Joko Widodo had a comfortable lead over Prabowo Subianto, a four-time presidential candidate who had sought support from hard-line Islamists.Mr. Joko, who is seeking a second five-year term, led by 10 percentage points in early returns. He emphasized infrastructure development during his campaign while moving to shore up support among conservative Muslims.What’s next: Official results in the far-flung island nation take weeks, but the winners usually become quickly apparent through so-called quick counts, in which independent polling firms tally ballots from a sampling of polling places nationwide.A prominent businessman with no political experience is throwing his hat into the ring for his country’s presidency. Sound familiar?The Taiwanese billionaire tycoon Terry Gou, whose company, Foxconn, is best known for manufacturing iPhones, announced his presidential campaign. The vote will be held in January.His bid, he said, had received a divine blessing — from a Chinese sea goddess who approached him in a dream. “Mazu said I must take care of the youth,” he told reporters. “I must do everything I can to help those who are struggling.”Stances: Mr. Gou is expected to leverage his ties with China, where Foxconn has large investments, in an attempt to improve relations between the two countries. He has also made appeals to Taiwan’s youth, whose prospects have been undercut by slow economic growth and a difficult job market.The Trump connection: Taiwanese news reports say Mr. Gou became serious about running for president after Donald Trump’s election in 2016. He was feted by Mr. Trump at the White House a year later, after Foxconn announced a multibillion-dollar investment in Wisconsin — whose scale is now in question.For nearly two years questions have swirled around the role that Russia played in the U.S. election and whether President Trump obstructed justice during the ensuing investigation. On Thursday morning in America, a redacted version of the special counsel’s nearly 400-page report will finally be made public.Whether you’ve been following along closely or avoiding the news entirely, we’ve prepared a guide.Congressional Democrats, reporters and many Americans will make a beeline to the section that addresses why the special counsel, Robert Mueller, decided not to draw a conclusion about whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice — a gap Attorney General William Barr filled with his own determination that the president had not.Missing pieces: Lawyers for the special counsel and the Justice Department have blacked out portions of the report, including secret grand jury testimony, classified information, material related to continuing investigations and other delicate details.What’s next: Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee are unlikely to be satisfied with the redacted version and are expected to subpoena the full report. But even without it, they may find enough evidence of obstruction to, at minimum, raise new questions about Mr. Barr’s decision to clear the president.Read for yourself: The redacted report is to be posted on the special counsel’s website.During Susan Wojcicki’s tenure as chief executive of YouTube, she has had to contend with uploads of pedophilia and mass murder. Yet she has largely kept a low profile and escaped the public scrutiny that her peers on other platforms have faced.To get a sense of what she was like as a leader, our reporter spoke to more than a dozen current and former employees, and Ms. Wojcicki herself — three times.Sudan: Former President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, who has not been seen since he was deposed last week, has been moved to a prison in Khartoum, the capital.China: Official figures show that the country’s economy stabilized in the first three months of the year, after Beijing flooded the financial system with money.TikTok: The Chinese video app is no longer available in Google and Apple app stores in India after a court prohibited downloads.India: Health workers thought they had vanquished leprosy in 2005. But the disease lived on, cloaked in stigma and medical mystery.Peru: Former President Alan García shot himself in the head and died as the police tried to arrest him in a major corruption case.Snapshot: Above, one of the thousands of North American glaciers that are losing ice, disrupting habitats for everything from bacteria to fish. Science: In a study that raises profound questions about the line between life and death, researchers restored some cellular activity to brains removed from slaughtered pigs.Candida auris: Our reporter reconstructed the case of a woman who died in January at a major medical facility after being diagnosed with the drug-resistant fungus.Beyoncé: The singer released “Homecoming,” a previously unannounced live album version of her performance at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival last year.What we’re reading: This piece from The Bulwark. “It’s a compelling counterpoint to the idea that being gay and running for president isn’t a big deal in 2019,” says Jeremy Peters, our national political reporter. “Tim Miller’s reaction to Pete Buttigieg kissing his husband onstage at a rally is a reminder that this is still very new.”Cook: Use leftovers to make salmon fried rice.Watch: Claire Denis’s new film, “High Life,” is now in cinemas. Her fellow director Barry Jenkins chatted with her about anxiety and depicting black lives on film.Go: An exhibition at the Institute du Monde Arabe in Paris looks at how soccer shapes and reflects the Arab world. (Some of the photos are online.)Eat: At the restaurant Niche, in Manhattan, Shigetoshi Nakamura specializes in mazemen, brothless ramen. Read our review.Smarter Living: Movie buffs are anticipating the coming blockbuster season. If movie subscription services are available to you, make sure you’ll get your money’s worth. Check out which supports more of the films you want to see, and which works at the theaters you go to most often. Read the fine print — some services have limits on the number of films or the prime-time showings you can go to.And we have recommendations on ditching one-and-done plastic straws, spoons and containers with affordable, reusable stand-ins. Thailand’s king is Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun. That is not his entire name. But that is all we publish in The Times.The leader of the Future Forward Party, which shocked the Thai military establishment in last month’s elections by coming in third in the popular vote, is Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit. Family names — a 20th-century innovation in Thailand — are constructed to be distinct, and that often means extra syllables.If foreigners find Thai names to be a mouthful, so, apparently, do Thais, who use nicknames in everyday life. Many people are called Lek (Thai for small), Nok (bird) and Poo (crab and, please, it’s pronounced closer to “boo”).This writer’s younger son has played soccer against an Ice, a Python and a Barcode. A girl in our building is called DTAC, which is the name of my cellphone operator.But the length of people’s names is nothing compared with the full name for Bangkok. It starts with Krungthep Mahanakhon Amon Rattanakosin Mahinthara Ayuthaya and continues on for 45 more syllables.That’s it for this briefing. See you on the other side of the Mueller report.— Stephen and InyoungThank youKatie Van Syckle helped compile today’s briefing. Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and Kenneth R. Rosen provided the break from the news. Hannah Beech, our Southeast Asia bureau chief, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode is the start of a two-part series about abortion.• Here’s our mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Ones trying to make fetch happen (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The New York Times has more than 30 international bureaus around the world. More than a few have cats. Stephen Hiltner is a reporter and photographer for the Surfacing column. A graduate of the University of Oxford and the University of Virginia, he joined The Times as a staff editor in 2016 after editing for six years at The Paris Review.  @sahiltner • Facebook Inyoung Kang is an editor and producer based in London.  @inyoungk Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering the release of Robert Mueller’s report, North Korea’s claim that it has tested a new weapon, and the growing number of abortion bans in the U.S.The Justice Department released a redacted version of the report by the special counsel, Robert Mueller. It has been posted on the department’s website, but load times are very slow, presumably due to high traffic. Here are our live updates on the findings, with excerpts and analysis, and our live coverage of the events of the day. We’re also planning to send a special edition of the Morning Briefing email later today. Attorney General William Barr held a news conference before the report’s release, vigorously defending President Trump’s conduct and clearing him of obstruction and him, his campaign and associates of any knowing collusion. Here is a transcript of his remarks. We’ll have video shortly. Response: Mr. Trump’s Twitter account displayed a “Game of Thrones”-themed post that declared in uppercase: “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and the Radical Left Democrats — Game Over.” Another angle: Justice Department officials have repeatedly discussed the report’s conclusions with White House lawyers, our reporters were told, aiding the president’s legal team as it prepares a rebuttal. In what appeared to be a warning from Kim Jong-un to President Trump, North Korea said today that it had test-fired a new type of “tactical guided weapon.” There was no evidence that the test involved a nuclear detonation or an intercontinental ballistic missile.Analysts said the test shows that Mr. Kim is reverting to sabre-rattling as he moves to end the sanctions that are derailing his hopes of rejuvenating North Korea’s economy.What’s next: Mr. Kim said recently that he would give the U.S. until the end of the year to come up with proposals that would lift sanctions, an implicit warning that North Korea might resume nuclear and intercontinental missile testing. Today’s test suggested that he might raise the stakes sooner.Donations from wealthy French families and companies to rebuild the fire-ravaged cathedral in Paris are nearing $1 billion, intensifying the resentment that has been on display during the Yellow Vest protests about economic inequality.“If they’re able to give dozens of millions to rebuild Notre Dame, they should stop telling us that there is no money to pay for social inequalities,” one labor union leader said.Another angle: The Paris Fire Department’s chaplain, the Rev. Jean-Marc Fournier, has emerged as a central figure in the mission to rescue artworks and relics from the blaze. He told our reporter how more than 100 firefighters carried the precious pieces to safety.Yesterday: A man carrying two cans of gasoline, two bottles of lighter fluid and two lighters was arrested after entering St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York, the police said. The church was undamaged.So-called heartbeat bills — a ban on abortion after a fetal heartbeat is detected, often before a woman even knows she is pregnant — have been on the fringes of the anti-abortion movement for years. But four states have passed such measures this year, and heartbeat bills are moving through the legislatures of 11 others, according to one policy expert.With an increasingly conservative Supreme Court under President Trump, anti-abortion activists hope to overturn Roe v. Wade, the decision that established a federal protection for abortion in 1973. Quotable: “Now is our time,” said Michael Gonidakis, the president of Ohio Right to Life in Columbus. “This is the best court we’ve had in my lifetime, in my parents’ lifetime.”The Daily: Today’s episode is the second of a two-part series on abortion. Listen to Part 1 here. During Susan Wojcicki’s tenure as chief executive of YouTube, she has had to contend with uploads of pedophilia and mass murder. Yet she has largely escaped the public scrutiny that her peers on other platforms have faced.To get a sense of what she is like as a leader, our reporter spoke to more than a dozen current and former employees, and Ms. Wojcicki herself.Tighter rules on Cuba: The Trump administration has imposed new restrictions on dealing with the island, including limiting nonfamily travel and allowing exiles to sue for property seized by the Castro government.New tent cities for immigrants: With existing facilities “beyond capacity,” the federal government will spend nearly $40 million to house detained migrant families and children in Texas.“Infatuated” with Columbine: An 18-year-old woman who officials said was armed and had traveled to Denver before the 20th anniversary of the shooting was found dead of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound.Ex-leader of Peru kills himself: A former president, Alan García, shot himself as the authorities were trying to arrest him in connection with one of the biggest corruption scandals in Latin American history.Pinterest I.P.O.: The digital pin board company has priced its shares at $19 each for today’s initial public offering, a valuation of $12.7 billion.Green buildings, or else: New York City is expected to pass a law to fine buildings that violate new caps on greenhouse gas emissions.Snapshot: Scientists were able to restore some function, above right, to brains from slaughtered pigs, in a study that raises profound questions about the line between life and death.Late-night comedy: Several of the hosts were eager to see Robert Mueller’s report. Jimmy Kimmel said, “Political analysts are going to try to read through these redactions like teenage boys trying to watch scrambled porn on cable in 1985.” What we’re reading: This piece from The Bulwark. “It’s a compelling counterpoint to the idea that being gay and running for president isn’t a big deal in 2019,” says Jeremy Peters, our national political reporter. “Tim Miller’s reaction to Pete Buttigieg kissing his husband onstage at a rally is a reminder that this is still very new.”Cook: Use leftovers to make salmon fried rice. Watch: Roxann Dawson’s faith-based film, “Breakthrough,” tells the story of a miraculous ordeal with an unassuming simplicity, our critic writes.Read: The Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer Robert Caro shares insights into his craft in “Working,” which is new this week on our hardcover nonfiction and combined print and e-book nonfiction best-seller lists. You can find all our lists here.Go: The moment Adam Driver steps onstage in “Burn This” is the most “impressively violent Broadway entrance” in 30 years, our theater critic writes.Smarter Living: The summer blockbuster season is near. Before you sign up for a movie subscription service like MoviePass, Sinemia or AMC’s A-List, check which works at the theaters you go to most often. Be sure to read the terms and conditions, since services have caps on the number of films you can see, or limits on the number of showings you can attend.And we have recommendations on affordable, reusable stand-ins for single-use plastic straws, spoons and containers.Thailand’s king is Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun. That’s not his entire name, but that’s all we use in The Times.The leader of the Future Forward Party, which shocked the Thai military establishment in last month’s elections by coming third in the popular vote, is Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit.Family names — a 20th-century innovation in Thailand — are constructed to be distinct, and that often means extra syllables.If foreigners find Thai names to be a mouthful, so, apparently, do Thais, who use nicknames in everyday life. Many people are called Lek (Thai for small), Nok (bird) and Poo (crab and, please, it’s pronounced more like “boo”).This writer’s younger son has played soccer against an Ice, a Python and a Bar Code. A girl in our building is called DTAC, which is the name of a cellphone operator.But nothing compares with the full name for Bangkok. It starts with Krungthep Mahanakhon Amon Rattanakosin Mahinthara Ayuthaya and continues for more than 40 syllables.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and Kenneth R. Rosen for the break from the news. Hannah Beech, our Southeast Asia bureau chief, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is the second of a two-part series on abortion.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Toss in the trash (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times has more than 30 international bureaus. More than a few have cats. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressApril 21: Actress Elaine May is 87. Actor Charles Grodin is 84. Singer Iggy Pop is 72. Actress Patti LuPone is 70. Actor Tony Danza is 68. Actress Andie MacDowell is 61. Singer Robert Smith of The Cure is 60. Guitarist Michael Timmins of Cowboy Junkies is 60. Actor-director John Cameron Mitchell (""Hedwig and the Angry Inch"") is 56. Rapper Michael Franti of Spearhead is 53. Actress Leslie Silva (""In the Dark,"" ''Providence"") is 51. Singer Glen Hansard is 49. Comedian Nicole Sullivan (""King of Queens"") is 49. Guitarist David Brenner of Theory of a Deadman is 41. Actor James McAvoy (""The Last King of Scotland,"" ''The Chronicles of Narnia"") is 40. Actor Terrence J (""Think Like A Man"") is 37. Actor Frank Dillane (""Fear the Walking Dead"") is 28. Singer Sydney Sierota of Echosmith is 22.April 22: Actress Estelle Harris (""Seinfeld"") is 91. Actor Jack Nicholson is 82. Singer Mel Carter is 80. Country singer Cleve Francis is 74. Director John Waters is 73. Singer Peter Frampton is 69. Singer Paul Carrack (Squeeze, Mike and the Mechanics) is 68. Actor Joseph Bottoms is 65. Actor Ryan Stiles (""The Drew Carey Show"") is 60. Comedian Byron Allen (""Real People"") is 58. Actor Chris Makepeace is 55. Guitarist Fletcher Dragge of Pennywise is 53. Actor Jeffrey Dean Morgan (""The Good Wife,"" ''Grey's Anatomy"") is 53. Actress Sheryl Lee (""Twin Peaks"") is 52. TV personality Sherri Shepherd (""The View"") is 52. Country singer Heath Wright of Ricochet is 52. Country singer Kellie Coffey is 48. Actor Eric Mabius (""Ugly Betty"") is 48. Bassist Shavo Odadjian of System of a Down is 45. Singer-guitarist Daniel Johns of Silverchair is 40. Actress Amber Heard is 33. Drummer Tripp Howell of LANCO is 30. Rapper Machine Gun Kelly is 29.April 23: Actor David Birney is 80. Actor Lee Majors (""Six Million Dollar Man"") is 80. Actress Blair Brown is 72. Actress Joyce DeWitt (""Three's Company"") is 70. Actor James Russo is 66. Director Michael Moore is 65. Actress Judy Davis is 64. Actress Valerie Bertinelli is 59. Actor Craig Sheffer (""One Tree Hill,"" ''Into the West"") is 59. Comedian George Lopez is 58. Actress Melina Kanakaredes (""Providence"") is 52. Drummer Stan Frazier of Sugar Ray is 51. Guitarist Tim Womack of Sons of the Desert is 51. Actor Scott Bairstow (""Party of Five"") is 49. Actor John Lutz (""30 Rock"") is 46. Musicians Aaron and Bryce Dessner of The National are 43. Wrestler-turned-actor John Cena (""The Marine"") is 42. Actor-comedian John Oliver is 42. Actor Kal Penn (""House M.D.,"" ''Harold and Kumar"") is 42. Singer Taio Cruz is 36. Actor Jesse Lee Soffer (""Chicago P.D.,"" ""Chicago Fire"") is 35. Guitarist Anthony LaMarca of The War On Drugs is 32. Actor Dev Patel (""Slumdog Millionaire"") is 29. Actor Matthew Underwood (""Zoey 101"") is 29. Model Gigi Hadid is 24. Musicians Jake and Josh Kiszka of Greta Van Fleet are 23. Actor Charlie Rowe (""Salvation"") is 23.April 24: Actress Shirley MacLaine is 85. Actress-singer-director Barbra Streisand is 77. Country singer Richard Sterban of the Oak Ridge Boys is 76. Drummer Doug Clifford (Creedence Clearwater Revival) is 74. Singer Ann Peebles is 72. Singer-keyboardist Rob Hyman of The Hooters is 69. Actor Eric Bogosian is 66. Singer-bassist Jack Blades of Night Ranger is 65. Actor Michael O'Keefe (""Roseanne"") is 64. Bassist David J (Love and Rockets, Bauhaus) is 62. Actor Glenn Morshower (""24"") is 60. Bassist Billy Gould (Faith No More) is 56. Actor-comedian Cedric the Entertainer is 55. Actor Djimon Hounsou (""Blood Diamond,"" ''Amistad"") is 55. Drummer Patty Schemel (Hole) is 52. Drummer Aaron Comess of the Spin Doctors is 51. Actor Aidan Gillen (""Game of Thrones"") is 51. Actress Melinda Clarke (""The O.C."") is 50. Actor Rory McCann (""Game of Thrones"") is 50. Bassist Brian Marshall of Creed and of Alter Bridge is 46. Actor Derek Luke (""Madea Goes To Jail,"" ''Friday Night Lights"") is 45. Actor Thad Luckinbill (""12 Strong,"" ''The Young and the Restless"") is 44. Actor Eric Balfour (""24"") is 42. Actress Rebecca Mader (""No Ordinary Family,"" ''Lost"") is 42. Actress Reagan Gomez (""Queen Sugar,"" ''The Parent 'Hood"") is 39. Actor Austin Nichols (""One Tree Hill"") is 39. Actress Sasha Barrese (""The Hangover"") is 38. Singer Kelly Clarkson (""American Idol"") is 37. Singer-bassist Tyson Ritter of All-American Rejects is 35. Country singer Carly Pearce is 29. Actor Joe Keery (""Stranger Things"") is 27. Actor Jack Quaid (""The Hunger Games"") is 27. Actor Jordan Fisher (""Liv and Maddie,"" ''Rent: Live"") is 25.April 25: Actor Al Pacino is 79. ""Dancing With The Stars"" judge Len Goodman is 75. Bassist Stu Cook of Creedence Clearwater Revisited is 74. Singer Bjorn Ulvaeus of ABBA is 74. Actress Talia Shire is 74. Actor Jeffrey DeMunn (""The Green Mile"") is 72. Country singer-songwriter Rob Crosby is 65. Actor Hank Azaria (""The Simpsons"") is 55. Singer Andy Bell of Erasure is 55. Bassist Eric Avery (Jane's Addiction) is 54. Guitarist Rory Feek of Joey and Rory is 54. Former ""Early Show"" host Jane Clayson is 52. Actress Gina Torres (""I Think I Love My Wife"") is 50. Actress Renee Zellweger is 50. Actor Jason Lee (""My Name Is Earl,"" ''Almost Famous"") is 49. Actor Jason Wiles (""Third Watch"") is 49. Actress Emily Bergl (""Southland"") is 44. Actress Marguerite Moreau (""The O.C.,"" ''Life As We Know It"") is 42. Singer Jacob Underwood (O-Town) is 39. Actress Allisyn Ashley Arm (""Sonny With A Chance"") is 23. Actress Jayden Rey (""The Conners"") is 10.April 26: Actress-comedian Carol Burnett is 86. Guitarist-songwriter Duane Eddy is 81. Singer Maurice Williams of Maurice and the Zodiacs is 81. Singer Bobby Rydell is 77. Singer Gary Wright is 76. Actor Giancarlo Esposito (""Revolution,"" ''Breaking Bad"") is 61. Drummer Roger Taylor of Duran Duran is 59. Actress Joan Chen (""Twin Peaks"") is 58. Drummer Chris Mars of The Replacements is 58. Actor-singer Michael Damian is 57. Actor Jet Li is 56. Guitarist Jimmy Stafford of Train is 55. Actor-comedian Kevin James (""Paul Blart: Mall Cop,"" ''The King of Queens"") is 54. Keyboardist Jeff Huskins of Little Texas is 53. Fiddler Joe Caverlee of Yankee Grey is 51. Singer T-Boz of TLC is 49. Actress Shondrella Avery (""Napoleon Dynamite"") is 48. Bassist Jay DeMarcus of Rascal Flatts is 48. Actress Simbi Kali (""3rd Rock From The Sun"") is 48. Bassist Michael Jeffers of Pinmonkey is 47. Drummer Jose Pasillas of Incubus is 43. Actor Jason Earles (""Hannah Montana"") is 42. Actor Leonard Earl Howze (""Barbershop"") is 42. Actor Amin Joseph (""Snowfall"") is 42. Actor Tom Welling (""Smallville"") is 42. Actor Pablo Schreiber (""Orange is the New Black,"" ''Weeds"") is 41. Actor Nyambi Nyambi (""Mike and Molly"") is 40. Actress Jordana Brewster (""The Fast and The Furious"") is 39. Actress Stana Katic (""Castle"") is 39. Actress Marnette Patterson (""Something So Right"") is 39. Actor Channing Tatum (""Step Up"") is 39. Actress Emily Wickersham (""NCIS"") is 35. Musician James Sunderland of Frenship is 32.April 27: Actress Anouk Aimee is 87. Singer Kate Pierson of The B-52's is 71. Singer Herbie Murrell of The Stylistics is 70. Actor Douglas Sheehan (""Knots Landing"") is 70. Guitarist Ace Frehley (Kiss) is 68. Singer Sheena Easton is 60. Actor James Le Gros (""Ally McBeal"") is 57. Bassist Rob Squires of Big Head Todd and the Monsters is 54. Singer Mica Paris is 50. Drummer Patrick Hallahan of My Morning Jacket is 41. Singer Jim James of My Morning Jacket is 41. Singer-guitarist Travis Meeks of Days of the New is 40. Bassist Joseph Pope the Third of Nathaniel Rateliff and the Night Sweats is 40. Guitarist John Osborne of the Brothers Osborne is 37. Actor Francis Capra (""Veronica Mars"") is 36. Actress Ari Graynor (""Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist"") is 36. Singer-guitarist Patrick Stump of Fall Out Boy is 35. Actress Sheila Vand (""24: Legacy"") is 34. Actress Jenna Coleman (""Victoria,"" ''Doctor Who"") is 33. Singer Nick Noonan of Karmin is 33. Actor William Moseley (""The Chronicles of Narnia"") is 32. Actress Emily Rios (""Breaking Bad"") is 30.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The future of Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane is in question after an Ethiopian Airlines flight crashed yesterday, killing 157 people.The Ethiopian Airlines flight was the second disaster involving the jet in five months, after a Lion Air crash in Indonesia killed 189 people in October. It’s rare for two planes of the same model to be involved in accidents in such a short time span, the NYT reports.The 737 Max is core to Boeing’s business. It’s the company’s best-selling model (list price: $120 million). Since its introduction in 2017, 350 planes have been delivered, and 5,000 more are currently on order. Chris Bryant of Bloomberg Opinion notes that its success is why Boeing shares are near a record high — though shares were down sharply in premarket trading.China and Indonesia have grounded the Max 8 jets. China’s airlines had been enthusiastic customers of the new model, but as of this morning they’ve been flying 737-800s instead.Concerns may give rivals a leg up. The 737 Max was created to counter Airbus’s latest A320 variant. Meanwhile, the Chinese plane maker Comac has been testing the C919, a rival of those jets, and has hoped to find buyers beyond China.Undeterred by a recent loss to Democrats, President Trump is expected to ask for $8.6 billion to finance a border wall in the next White House budget, which is to be sent to Congress today.• The proposal also includes $3.6 billion to replenish military construction funds that were diverted under a national emergency declaration.• “I would just say that the whole issue of the wall and border security is of paramount importance,” said Larry Kudlow, the president’s top economic adviser.• Democrats rebuffed the proposal. “Congress refused to fund his wall, and he was forced to admit defeat,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer said in a joint statement. “The same thing will repeat itself if he tries this again.”The request is largely for show. As the NYT notes, the White House budget “will serve more as a statement of values and a vehicle for political positioning than a plausible outline for how the government will actually raise and spend money.”Don’t expect the budget to be balanced, regardless of whether the wall funding is included.[Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter and make sense of major business and policy headlines.]In a push to strike a trade deal, the U.S. may be at risk of signing a watered-down agreement.A potential compromise could enable a deal to be reached this spring, Keith Bradsher and Ana Swanson write.• Washington has been pushing Beijing to agree to a so-called enforcement mechanism that would allow the U.S. to monitor China’s behavior and impose penalties for violations.• Wang Shouwen, China’s vice minister of commerce for international trade negotiations, said on Saturday that China would be amenable to an agreement that gave each side an equal right to take trade actions.But China’s promises not to manipulate its currency don’t seem to be particularly original, Mr. Bradsher writes:• American negotiators want China to avoid devaluing its currency to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports.• But “currency provisions of the evolving trade agreement are essentially a reaffirmation of the statement that the G-20 economies, including China, issued” in 2016.The bigger picture is a growing concern that, as the NYT Editorial Board points out, the Trump administration “may settle for an ephemeral victory at the expense of America’s long-term economic interests.”Tomorrow, the British Parliament is to vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s deal for leaving the E.U. Right now, its chances for approval don’t look good.Talks between Britain and Brussels are deadlocked, according to Mrs. May’s office. Negotiators have been trying to secure last-minute changes to win over British lawmakers, after a previous version of the agreement was overwhelmingly rejected by Parliament.Some hard-line Brexiters say defeat is “inevitable.” And a former Brexit secretary, David Davis, has said that even a proposal for Mrs. May to step down in exchange for support of her deal would “not get the vote through.”Meanwhile, those who want to stay in the E.U. have “wind in the sails,” according to the British foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, who said over the weekend that there is a real risk of “losing Brexit.” If Mrs. May’s deal is rejected, lawmakers would vote on whether to reject a no-deal Brexit and delay the withdrawal process. That could increase the chances of a second referendum.More: Brexit has reportedly spurred financial firms to move $1.2 trillion in assets and funds out of Britain. And the Bank of England has told some British lenders to triple holdings of easy-to-sell assets to weather a no-deal Brexit.The Fed chairman gave a rare interview to “60 Minutes” about the economy, future interest rate increases — and whether President Trump could dismiss him.On job security: Here’s the exchange between Mr. Powell and Scott Pelley of “60 Minutes”:Pelley: Can the president fire you?Powell: Well, the law is clear that I have a four-year term. And I fully intend to serve it.Pelley: So no, in your view?Powell: No.On the U.S. economy: Mr. Powell said that America was in “a good place,” with a favorable outlook on inflation. The Fed’s interest rate policy, he added, is “appropriate.” (Translation: Don’t be surprised if the Fed keeps rates steady until it has a better idea of the outlook for the year.)On the global economy: Mr. Powell feels more concerned, telling Mr. Pelley, “We’ve seen increasing evidence of the global economy slowing down.” The biggest potential shocks to the U.S., the Fed chairman said, could come from slower growth in China and Europe, as well as Brexit.More: How central bankers around the world are taking cues from the Fed by reducing interest rate increases to cushion slowing economies.We’re now a decade into one of the great rallies in stock market history, which has seen the S&P 500 surge 305 percent and the creation of $30 trillion in wealth. Matt Phillips tried to explain why  most Americans are subdued after the latest rally:• “To buy stocks, you need money. After watching their fortunes — and retirement funds — shrivel, few Americans were in a position to take a fresh flier on beaten-down stocks.”• “Even those who are invested are behaving differently, both in how they invest and what they’re doing with the proceeds.”• “In 2017, 43 percent of all the money in American stock market funds was in index funds. Back in 2007, only 19 percent of stock market assets were in these passive strategies, a style of investing that acknowledges that, for most people, trying to beat the market through savvy trading is a mug’s game.”• “The psychological and financial damage inflicted by the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession continue to weigh heavily.”• Research suggests that “enduring financial traumas at a relatively young age can shape people’s behavior for decades.” That could mean that younger Americans “are unlikely to be eager to take big risks in the stock market any time soon.”A year ago, Twitter’s C.E.O., Jack Dorsey, said that he wanted the company to make the conversations on its platform healthier. Kurt Wagner of Recode finds that the effort is failing.• “There’s no widely adopted way to quantify the health of human interaction, especially at the internet’s scale.” But the measures that Twitter and researchers are considering include a “toxicity” metric and one that takes note of civility, receptivity and constructivity, helped by researchers from Oxford and Leiden Universities.• “The research teams that Twitter announced last July to help them work on this project haven’t even started. One of the two teams has abandoned the project altogether. Internal metrics Twitter is building on its own are still in the ‘experimentation’ phase and aren’t being tested in the wild.”• “Lawyers for Twitter and Leiden haven’t been able to solidify the data-sharing and privacy details for the partnership, which means the researchers are simply waiting.”In an op-ed for the FT, Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., writes that it’s time to overhaul international corporate tax rules:• “The ease with which multinationals seem able to avoid tax and the three-decade-long decline in corporate tax rates compromise faith in the fairness of the international system.”• One solution, she says, is to create minimum-tax schemes. “Reduce the scope for shifting profits to low-tax locations,” she suggests, or “allow low-income countries to retain more revenue by imposing minimum withholding taxes on cross-border payments.”• Another is to “create a system that fully taxes routine profits — something like a normal return on investment — on basic activities in the country in which they take place, while splitting any remaining profits among all the relevant nations.”Sam Altman stepped down as president of Y Combinator, but remains chairman of the start-up incubator.Bill Shine stepped down as White House communications director to take a position on President Trump’s re-election campaign.Bank of America named James Robertson and Peter Luck as co-heads of investment banking for Britain.DealsNvidia agreed to buy the chip maker Mellanox for about $7 billion. (CNBC)Deutsche Bank’s C.E.O., Christian Sewing, is said to have dropped his opposition to a possible merger with Commerzbank. (FT)The talent agency Endeavor unwound a $400 million investment from Saudi Arabia after receiving financial help from other investors. (NYT)The Wall Street financiers Josh Harris and David Blitzer are reportedly considering selling their majority stake in the English soccer club Crystal Palace. (Bloomberg)Politics and policyThe White House reportedly plans to issue executive orders on issues with bipartisan appeal, including drug pricing and the opioid epidemic. (Axios)Joe Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders led a poll of likely Iowa caucusgoers, solidifying their standing as front-runners for the Democratic presidential nomination. (NYT)A poll found that the company most popular with Democrats was Kraft Heinz, while for Republicans it was Chick-fil-A — and for independents, it was Amazon. (Axios)Mr. Trump falsely claimed he didn’t call Tim Cook “Tim Apple.” (Axios)TradeThe U.S. worries that Germany’s new gas pipeline will make the country too reliant on Russia. (WSJ)The U.N. says North Korea has been undermining sanctions meant to pressure it into giving up nuclear weapons. (WSJ)TechElizabeth Warren has vowed to break up big tech companies, and Amy Klobuchar has argued that companies that make money off user data should perhaps pay more in taxes. (FT, Verge)Tesla says it will have to raise the price of its Model S and X vehicles about 3 percent to keep more stores open and still sell the $35,000 version of its Model 3. (Tesla)Facebook reportedly has a 6,000-person security team to quietly protect the social network’s employees. (Business Insider)The Trump administration wants to use social media to help identify people who are receiving federal disability benefits without being truly disabled. (NYT)Silicon Valley wants to build a monument to … Silicon Valley. (NYT)Best of the restQatar reportedly offered $400 million to FIFA just three weeks before the nation was named host of the 2022 World Cup. (Times of London)Wells Fargo says that its culture has changed in light of numerous scandals, but employees disagree. (NYT)What will a contempt hearing mean for Elon Musk? Also, Tesla investors are suing the company to stop Mr. Musk from tweeting. (DealBook, Fortune)Female bankers have criticized UBS over the way it cuts bonus payments after maternity leave. (FT)Sotheby’s, the art auction house, turns 275 today. Its first auction? A sale of “several hundred scarce and valuable books,” which fetched £826. (Sotheby’s)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering a shift in how manufacturers think about China, a rise in anti-Semitism and a policy change in the Mormon Church.Whatever deal Washington and Beijing reach on trade, global companies have already started shifting their supply chains from China, just as some Trump administration officials had wanted.Despite President Trump’s promises to bring jobs back to the U.S., most of the work is moving to countries with lower costs. China will remain a vital manufacturing hub, but chief executives say the trade war has prompted a fundamental reassessment. Yesterday: Mr. Trump said that an “epic” trade pact could be weeks away and that he may soon meet with the Chinese president.Related: The U.S. economy added 196,000 jobs in March, suggesting that an unexpectedly weak showing in February was an anomaly in a record run of hiring. The unemployment rate remained unchanged, at 3.8 percent, the Labor Department reported today.For months, the aircraft manufacturer dismissed concerns about the anti-stall system on its 737 Max jets, saying pilots could avoid problems by following a checklist.But investigators’ preliminary findings from the Ethiopian Airlines crash last month showed that the pilots could not regain control even after following Boeing’s procedures. The report, released Thursday, adds to the scrutiny that Boeing and federal regulators are facing after two deadly crashes.Response: Boeing’s chief executive acknowledged on Thursday that the anti-stall software had played a role in the crash. “It’s our responsibility to eliminate this risk,” Dennis Muilenburg said. “We own it, and we know how to do it.”What’s next: The report, which could change as it’s completed, doesn’t rule out the potential for pilot error.Signaling his intent to put allies on a traditionally independent body, Mr. Trump said on Thursday that he planned to nominate Mr. Cain, a former pizza executive and a 2012 Republican presidential candidate, for a seat on the Federal Reserve Board. It’s the second time in weeks that the president has suggested candidates with deeply held political views for a Fed seat. Last month, Mr. Trump said he planned to nominate Stephen Moore, a conservative economist who advised his campaign and has, like the president, become a vocal critic of the central bank’s rate increases.Background: Presidents have long stocked regulatory agencies with partisan appointees, but the Fed’s seven-member board has largely been an exception given the role it plays in the economy.Yesterday: Mr. Trump, ignoring his own history with women, posted a video on Twitter that mocked Joe Biden. The former vice president, who is still expected to enter the 2020 presidential race, has been accused by several women of touching them in ways that made them feel uncomfortable. We asked for readers’ opinions about Mr. Biden’s interactions.Most casual listeners are familiar with hip-hop’s 1 percent — Jay-Z, Drake, Cardi B. But Nipsey Hussle, who was fatally shot in Los Angeles last weekend, was a member of rap’s middle class, who can do well for themselves without reaching mainstream mega-fame.Many stay close to home for financial and personal reasons, but doing so can make them reachable targets. “Sometimes keeping it real is too much,” said Wack 100, a prominent rap manager. “When you’re that accessible, that common, then it becomes easy to get to you.”Catch up: Hussle was shot in the Crenshaw neighborhood of South Los Angeles, where he grew up, outside a clothing store he owned. On Thursday, prosecutors charged a suspect with his murder.Polling suggests that anti-Semitic attitudes may be no more widespread than in the past, particularly in Western Europe. But extremists have seemingly become more brazen, as in the torch-lit march pictured above in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017. That climate is being used for political ends by ideologies that otherwise barely overlap: the far left, Europe’s radical Islamist fringe, and even politicians from the Democratic and Republican parties. Request for Brexit delay: Prime Minister Theresa May asked the European Union today to delay Britain’s departure from the bloc for a second time, until June 30.U.S. role in Yemen: The House passed a bipartisan resolution on Thursday demanding an end to military involvement in Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen. The measure, a rebuke to President Trump over his defense of the kingdom after the killing of the dissident Jamal Khashoggi, most likely sets up the second veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency.Mormon Church rescinds policy: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has said it will allow children of same-sex couples to be baptized, reversing a 2015 rule banning such ceremonies and labeling those in same-sex marriages as apostates.The 2020 election: Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio has announced a presidential bid, bringing the Democratic primary field to 17. Here’s a look at who’s running.From Opinion: As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? A limited-run newsletter will explore what’s at stake. Sign up here.Snapshot: Above, the textured silver building at left is the Shed, a $475 million arts center that opens today as part of the Hudson Yards development in Manhattan. Read our guide. N.C.A.A. basketball: We preview the women’s Final Four, which starts tonight, and the men’s, which begins on Saturday.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Modern Love: In this week’s column, a woman finds that purging her possessions, and some of her anatomy, reveals what she treasures most.Late-night comedy: Stephen Colbert questioned Attorney General William Barr’s summary of the special counsel’s report: “That’s like tuning in to see the new season of ‘Game of Thrones,’ and it’s just Barr holding a sign that says, ‘Dragons did some stuff. The end.’”What we’re reading: This short story in The New Yorker, recommended by Gillian Wong, our editor specializing in China coverage. She writes: “Te-Ping Chen, a Wall Street Journal reporter until recently based in Beijing, imagines Chinese twins in the internet era whose lives take them in vastly different directions.”Cook: End the week with lemon cream cheese cookies. Watch: “Call the Midwife” (PBS) and “The Chi” (Showtime) are among the best small-screen broadcasts this weekend. Listen: A staple gun. A dental drill. See how Billie Eilish made a haunted pop hit in our latest Diary of a Song.Read: “The Promise of Elsewhere,” by Brad Leithauser, is a comic novel in which a depressed American academic ends up in Greenland. It’s one of nine new books we recommend this week. Smarter Living: Want to get rid of your laptop, tablet or cellphone? If they’re too old to reuse, you can send them to a smelter to be reclaimed by “urban mining” — the devices often contain copper, silver, gold and lithium.Also, if you feel like you don’t have the time to read, try bite-size books.The Times has been covering the Chinese government’s internment of hundreds of thousands of Muslims — perhaps over a million — in the western region of Xinjiang. We asked Chris Buckley, one of the reporters involved, to explain the leadership’s rationale.The cost of internal strife is a major concern to China’s leaders, who have only to look to the Taiping Rebellion of the 1850s. That internal war, which claimed 20 million or more lives, remains one of the world’s bloodiest.The mass internments in Xinjiang reflect the leadership’s view that the religion and culture of Uighurs and other Muslim minorities are widely “infected” by antigovernment sentiments that could foment unrest and terrorism.Uighurs — a Turkic people — have had an uneasy, sometimes violent, relationship with the Chinese Communist authorities since 1949.In the 1980s and 1990s, the government allowed more space for the Uighurs’ language and customs. But policies became increasingly hard-line, especially after ethnic rioting in 2009 that killed at least 200 people. In 2014, more than 30 people were killed in an attack by Uighurs in southwest China. There were many smaller-scale attacks as well.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the battle to control Rupert Murdoch’s media empire.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: “Dumbo” director Burton (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times has had a Chinese-language website since 2012 and a Spanish-language website since 2016. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" 

      Interview by DAVID MARCHESE

MARCH 19, 2019

‘I try and make it so that if anyone’s offended, I can explain why they shouldn’t be.’
Ricky Gervais on provocation, picking targets and outrage culture.In Ricky Gervais’s new Netflix show, “After Life,” he plays a small-town journalist who, after being widowed, abandons all the rote politesse the rest of us rely on to get comfortably through our days. As is always the case with Gervais’s work — he’s probably still best known as the co-creator and star of the original “The Office” — some deeply cringe-inducing comedic moments ensue. “Anything you do that’s the slightest bit interesting,” Gervais said, “as many people are going to hate it as love it.” Indeed, since “The Office,” which debuted in 2001, Gervais’s output — whether television, film or stand-up — has been divisive, at times drawing criticism for being smug or mawkish but never at any detriment to his popularity. “There’s no objectivity about comedy,” said the 57-year-old, a frequent Twitter lightning rod. “You’ve just got to own your emotions.”Has social media changed the way the public perceives your work? Yes, and here’s an example: 20 years ago, if you saw something on TV that offended you and you wanted to let someone know, you would’ve had to get a pen and paper and write, “Dear BBC, I’m bothered.” But you didn’t do it because it was too much trouble. Now with Twitter, you can just go, “[Expletive] you!” to a comedian who’s offended you. Then a journalist will see that and say, “So-and-so said a thing and people are furious.” No. The rest of us don’t give a [expletive] and wouldn’t have heard about it if it hadn’t been made a headline. Everything is exaggerated. But everything’s also an illusion. No one would talk to you in the street like they do on Twitter. They’d never come up and say, “Your articles stink.” They’d never do that because they’re normal, but they’re not normal on Twitter because there’s no nuance, no irony, no conversation there.So why should we take it seriously? You don’t. If you ignore it on Twitter, it didn’t happen. It’s like going into a toilet stall and arguing with graffiti. If you don’t go there, it doesn’t exist.But you go there. I do. For fun. Or sometimes research. If I’m doing a warm-up show and I’m about five minutes short of material, I’ll search Twitter for provocative things. You find those dark corners. That’s a good thing about Twitter: I used to have to meet these maniacs, like Agent Clarice Starling meeting Hannibal Lecter. Now I can find the dregs from the safety of my Hampstead mansion.Has Twitter been good for your comedy? It has. I can see a cross section of society a thousand times faster than I could’ve otherwise. I’ve got 13 million followers. That’s the world, really. I’ll tweet, “What’s a subject you should never joke about?” Some people fall for the trap and say something like, “Psoriasis.” Then I can come up with 10 minutes on that.Sounds like a good 10 minutes. What’s something that you’ve researched online that was helpful in developing a joke that way? There’s loads of things. Onstage I’ll read out responses to “These are the things you should never joke about,” and whatever I say is quite funny because in your head you think of this one person being angry about the joke. People think someone joking about their issue is the worst thing in the world. I did a joke on “Fallon” about peanut allergies, and someone said I should never talk about food allergies. I joke about AIDS, famine, cancer, the Holocaust and you’re telling me I shouldn’t joke about allergies? The audience has got to be clever enough to know when I’m playing the idiot and saying the wrong thing for comic effect. That’s one of the things of comedy: laughing at the wrong thing because you know what the right thing is.What makes you confident that your audience knows? All you can do is give clues. I did a tweet that said something like, “I’m your typical liberal, lefty, socialist, snowflake. I agree with antiracists … and yet if I talk about freedom of speech, I’m suddenly alt-right.”1 When did that happen?You’re saying Twitter is a dirty toilet stall of human thought, but you also rely on it to generate material. Aren’t there more interesting places to look? Do you mean, why am I fighting the easiest targets? Why am I picking extreme examples? Because I’m a comedian, not a politician. My job is to be funny. If I can do that with a little intelligence and fall on the right side, that’s a bonus. To answer your other question, “Do I care that there’s someone who’s taking my irony at face value?” You can’t legislate against stupidity. These are fair questions you’re asking but unfair to only ask comedians. The misunderstanding with contentious subjects is that if a comedian deals with them people think he’s taking the wrong side. I’ve heard posh radio shows discussing whether Ricky Gervais should be “dealing with this” in his comedy. Well, you’re talking about it! Why can’t I deal with it in comedy? You might not like what I say, but that doesn’t mean I shouldn’t deal with it.To my mind the bigger question isn’t about whether somebody should or shouldn’t joke about a subject, because, of course, everything is fair game. No, not of course. Everyone says that, and then there’s one thing that makes them go: “Too soon! Wrong forum!” When I write a joke, it’s not like I’ve gone, “That’s funny, and I don’t care who hates it.” I try and make it so that if anyone’s offended, I can explain why they shouldn’t be.What I was saying is that any rational person listening in good faith probably believes that any subject is on the table for a joke. That’s right, but it’s rare.So the more important question is whether the jokes are aimed at worthwhile targets, and if they’re cheap or not. I understand your point, and it is a fair question. The joke I do in my “Humanity” special about “When you’re being raped by Satan, I’ll be laughing” — that’s irresistible because it’s so mental. If it was less mental, it wouldn’t be as funny. If someone says, “I don’t agree with your atheism” — O.K. I can’t go anywhere with that as a joke. So I pick extreme examples because they’re funnier.The material from “Humanity” that provoked — And I knew what that would be before the special went out: Caitlyn Jenner.My question is not about the Caitlyn Jenner-specific jokes. You build that bit out into this larger thing about transgender identification, and you get to a part about wanting to self-identify as a chimp named Bobo. Is that an instance in which the material was intellectually achieving what you wanted to achieve? That bit changes halfway through. So I come out and I’m explaining the joke from the Golden Globes, which I stand by. It was about a celebrity killing someone with their car.2 That clearly is the joke. But then I say people thought I was in a feud with Caitlyn Jenner, and I go: “It was clickbait. Of course, I rose to the bait.” So I’m saying I’m spoiled and childish. Then I get more and more spoiled and childish as the bit goes on. I become the idiot who believes that being transgender is the same as changing into a chimp. But I have to do the joke like I mean it for it to work.To connect this to something you said earlier: Was the audience laughing at the right thing there? You don’t think a lot of people were just laughing at the comparison of a transgender person to someone who wants to identify as a chimp? Some people are logical and get it. Some of it is also people saying, “I might not agree with him, and he’s gone too far, but I’m glad he’s not scared to talk about it.” I’m talking about the subject again in my new material. I’m talking about cases where people aren’t trans but they’re saying they are to get put into women’s prison where they can rape women.That isn’t really a thing, is it? Oh, yeah, actual thing.3 I say that genuine trans people should be up in arms about this. I’m very clear that the perpetrators I’m talking about aren’t trans people. Then I play with it and get things wrong within the joke.Why do transgender people seem like such ripe subject matter for you? Is it that you’re on some level uncomfortable with it? It’s because of Twitter. You look at Twitter, and it seems like it’s trans activists versus TERFs,4 and it’s all going to end like a battle scene from “Game of Thrones.” Then you go into the real world, and it’s not happening at all.You might want to spend less time on social media. I’m fine as long as I can properly calibrate what’s there online and also still remember to walk outside in the sun.That sounds like a drug addict saying, “I’m fine as long as I balance my uppers and downers.” I could be wrong. But no, I know I’m not. There are idiots on Twitter. But there are idiots on the High Street. They just don’t talk to you.I imagine it’s possible your critics aren’t willing to give you credit for the way you move in your stand-up from telling jokes intended to be understood as dumb to telling jokes intended to be understood as smart. Is that elision part of what bothers people? Well, exactly. I’ll have smartass plays on religious belief5 or whatever and then go the other way. Most people haven’t got the time to analyze the jokes, and I go in and out of the parody too fast for some. But as long as I know the target and some people get it and agree with me, I think the jokes are justified.This is in the realm of a therapist’s question, but you often play these characters, whether it’s David Brent in “The Office” or Tony in “After Life” who compulsively commit social faux pas. How much of that is you? Do you feel as if you always have a level of self-awareness about what you’re saying? I try to. I do ironic jokes in my social life. All people do that when they joke with each other, and they don’t have to explain themselves. Whereas you do feel the need to explain jokes to strangers. Deep down, I want those 10,000 strangers who come to see me perform to know I’m a nice guy.Why’d you get into stand-up? You’re not one of these comedians who was doing it at 20. No, I wasn’t. God, I would have been awful. I didn’t know anything. I can’t think what I would have talked about. Before I could do it, I had to learn to relate. Getting fat and old and ugly helped with that. I don’t know if you’ve heard of Simon Amstell. He’s a British comedian. He once said something about young, handsome people doing comedy, like, People are already looking at you; why do you need this?Do you need it? I don’t. I do enjoy it. I didn’t enjoy it as much doing “Humanity.” I think I was proud, rather. I approached it differently. With “Humanity,” I didn’t write it like I did my other specials. Instead, I walked out with a can of beer and started talking about stuff, like I do on Twitter. It felt brilliant. The audience engaged straightaway. The other good thing about that special is that the audience has known me for 15 years. So I could throw in self-referential things to get over my not being low status anymore. Traditionally in British comedy, a comedian’s been wallowing in the mud with the people. But people know what comedians earn now, so I can’t go out there and talk about, “Well, I’m on welfare.” So I get my low status in two ways. I talk about money with irony: “When I flew in a private plane the first time, they thought I was the cook.” And the other way I do it is to talk about things where the audience is better off than me. I talk about being fat and old and having descended testicles.Is the idea of being an outsider important to you? It’s really important. But I don’t have to be one with people who have paid to see me. They know I’m one of them who got lucky. But I do have to be an outsider as host at the Golden Globes. That’s when I have to bite the hand that feeds me. Imagine if I went out and was nice to George Clooney? People at home would be going, “Who is this [expletive]?”How do you reconcile your need to be an outsider with the fact that you’re clearly not one anymore? I can still be an outsider by reminding people that the Establishment hates me.They can’t hate you that much. You make TV shows. You play arenas. I am in a privileged position, but I remind the audience that not everyone likes me. And it’s sort of true. I’m the son of an immigrant laborer, and I wear bad jeans and drink [expletive] lager. It’s all part of the illusion. Audiences need to be on your side. You can’t go out and hate an audience and want them to hate you. There’s not enough people that would pay for that, you know? It’s still a business. I’m not ashamed at making money.What’s the best thing you’ve bought with your money? Tennis court.Are you good? Oh, no. But it’s lovely to have.Is there a criticism you’ve gotten that you felt was helpful? Or even just valid? I felt bad for the Tim Allen Golden Globes gag. He and Tom Hanks were handing out an award. I said: “I’ll go to our next two presenters. The first has made over $3.5 billion at the box office, won an Oscar blah blah blah. The second is Tim Allen.” That’s unfair. But it’s unfair because anyone standing next to Tom Hanks is going to get that treatment.Also, who cares? It’s a roast joke about Tim Allen. But I don’t want Tim Allen to think I mean it. He’s had a great career. As long as people go “That’s a bit harsh” rather than “Yes, Tim Allen, you [expletive] useless … ” I’d hate that. It’s just he was the one standing next to Tom Hanks, you know? I do worry about these things. Because there was a person at the end of that joke.Hollywood awards shows are held up these days as of real social importance in a way that they weren’t even a few years back. What do you make of that shift? I’ve got nothing against someone using that platform for a political idea. Despite what people think of me, I’m not judgmental at all. One minute I can be having a go at Hollywood for taking itself too seriously, then I can be having a go at Trump for caring about Hollywood. And I walk between the two sides because I keep my own politics out of my show.Why? Because if you’re relying on an audience agreeing with you, you’re rallying. It loses something comedically. Comedy is an intellectual pursuit, not an emotional one. That’s why I don’t do real racist, sexist, homophobic jokes.I would hope it’s because you’re not a racist, sexist homophobe. Of course. But I do a lot of jokes that aren’t “me,” and I don’t have to remember not to be those things in my real life. It’s like, if you start a joke with “Why do all Mexicans…?” I’ll stop you there, because whatever the answer is, they don’t. Racist jokes don’t work comedically. But jokes about race can.I’m surprised you don’t think comedy is more emotional. Laughing is. But it’s triggered by getting the joke. If you don’t agree with a joke’s premise, you’re not going to be laughing. If Hitler was here now, telling the best jokes in the world, we wouldn’t laugh. We’d be going, “What about all the bad [expletive] he’s done!”A minute ago you said that comedy loses something if the audience is agreeing with you. I think you’re crazy if — Oh, here we go.If you believe that a vast majority of the people who buy a ticket for a Ricky Gervais show don’t agree with what they believe is your take on sensitive subjects. I only play very cosmopolitan areas where they’re smart enough to get the irony. That comes back to the question of why I pick extreme examples. Because they’re easier for people to get. Particularly when you’re doing something contentious, you don’t want to start with a misunderstanding. There are no rules, but when we’re talking about being canceled and wokeness, it is clearer to pick on someone like John Wayne. Canceled 40 years after his death for not being woke in a 48-year-old issue of Playboy magazine!6 His quotes were awful. But what are we to do with it? As an example, I did a joke about taking down Confederate statues. I said: “They should just have amendments on them. ‘Great general. A bit racist.’”On the subject of cancel-them culture, how do you now think about the work of someone like Louis C.K.? Or Kevin Hart. Kevin Hart apologized for his homophobic jokes. If people don’t accept a person’s apology for a mistake, there’s no value in that person trying to improve. And I hate virtue-signaling. I’ll tell you why it’s bad. Because the more pathetic people’s accusation is, the more these people are saying they’re not like the accused. They’re saying, “Look how good I am.” They’re saying, “I hate that thing because I would never do it.” Why are you telling us?Presumably because they were offended. If I wanted to get back: “Well done, Rick! Keep up the good work, boy!” I might as well tweet “I am not a rapist.” Please don’t use that as the headline.You said it. I’m in a cold sweat now.But to get back to my question. How does what we know about the behavior of someone like Louis C.K. affect our thinking about the comedy he has done or is doing now? It depends on the deed, the accusation, the time, how much you liked them. You make your own mind up. The Louis C.K. thing — is he allowed to gig? Yeah, he is. Are people allowed to protest? Yeah, they are. But you can’t change history. When his leaked thing came out, I listened to it. People were saying: “God, it’s terrible. He’s gone alt-right.” And it’s the same contentious stuff they loved when he did it two years ago!I disagree. The problem was that his new material was not good. That’s an opinion.They’re hackier jokes. But my point is nothing to do with the quality of the material. It’s that Louis C.K. isn’t suddenly alt-right. People look at him as if he’s changed his whole outlook to life and the way he writes jokes.Let me ask you a question related to “After Life.” Yes, best do that. I’m already sweating about some of the things that I’ve said.The show is about a man who’s decided, as a result of grief, to dispense with social niceties. As a famous person and a successful person, do you have a different perspective than the rest of us on the value — or lack of value — of obligatory social behaviors that some of us might ditch if we had a little more power? The reason we’re nice to people is because the consequences of not being nice would make our life worse. Why do I lie every day? Because I don’t want to hurt people’s feelings. “Can you come to the christening?” “I can’t. I’m giving blood at the orphanage.” I don’t say: “Why would I want to come to a christening of your baby? It’s boring.”Your last show, “Derek,” was so not about irony or bitterness. “After Life” has those elements, but it also gets at some of the sweetness of “Derek.” Do you see the shows as in conversation with each other? I don’t. I do treat the shows like an exploration into themes. “Derek” is my Ph.D. about kindness. “After Life” is my Ph.D. about social niceties during grief. “The Office” was my Ph.D. about the mundanity of being thrown together in a 9-to-5. “Extras” was my Ph.D. about ambition and fame.I’m curious about what it meant for you that the first project you created, “The Office,” was so highly regarded. Everyone agrees it’s great TV. No, they don’t. Some people hate it, which is comforting. It reminds me that everyone is different, and opinions are subjective and it doesn’t matter.People’s incorrect negative opinions about “The Office” aside, how did the early acclaim shape your self-confidence or self-doubt? You have to ignore it. You know there’s going to be a backlash. With me, it’s every six months. For the last 15, 20 years, at least once a year there’s been an article saying this is the end of Ricky Gervais’s career. The first time, I thought, Really? Is it? The second time, I thought, Is it? Third time, I went, Here we go. Fourth time, I went, No, it’s not. And you should polarize it if you’re doing anything mildly artistic.I guess there was someone somewhere who didn’t like the Beatles. I didn’t.Now that’s offensive. I preferred the Stones. I do appreciate the Beatles now.How do you view the trajectory of your work? Does “The Office” stand apart? No, but I’m always going to have an affection for the show. It was the first time I’d tried my hardest at anything. I’m one of those kids that went, “I didn’t study for this exam and still got an A minus.”Do you have a sense of what you’d be doing if “The Office” had fizzled? Working in a chapeau shop? Maybe a haberdashery? If you want to quote “Spinal Tap” lines, we’ll be here all day! My favorite is “too much [expletive] perspective.” Me and Jane7 said that line every day for about 10 years. I sent Chris Guest8 all six episodes of “After Life.” He sent me back the most beautiful email: “weeping.”This reminds me of an interview you did in which you recalled a conversation you’d had with Christopher Guest. You two had talked about — I think the Englishism you used was “going off the boil.” Yeah, he was saying, “What if we’re not funny anymore, and we don’t know it?” I went, “Who cares?”Do you think a creative person can accurately judge if there’s been a decline in his or her work? Probably not. It depends what your aim is. If it’s to keep getting more and more popular, you’re probably going to fail. If it’s to keep getting paid more, that could work. It’s worked for me! I do get asked, What’s your pipe dream? I’d like to live in the middle of the woods. In a mansion. Surrounded by rescue dogs.9 With all the mod cons that hermetically seal the mansion so spiders can’t get in. That’s my answer.So you’re not one of these tortured artists constantly thinking about how to be more successful? I remember when I was young and had hair I saw that Michael Caine10 said he’d done a “Jaws” movie to buy a new house. I thought, Idiot. You let me down. Now I think, Good on him because a house is a real thing. Rotten Tomatoes11 isn’t a real thing. So within reason I want to do what I want every day, be proud of the work and have a nice life.David Marchese is the magazine’s Talk columnist. Read his previous interviews with Michael J. Fox and John Legend.This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity from two conversations.March 1, 2019March 11, 2019Feb. 22, 2019Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering a White House whistle-blower’s account of security clearance irregularities, intensifying scrutiny on Joe Biden, and a rash of racehorse deaths at a track in California.Politicians might not have figured out Britain’s departure from the European Union, but for much of the business world, Brexit has effectively happened. Banks and other financial services companies have shifted jobs and assets to the Continent, and Japanese automakers have scrapped expansion plans. Whatever comes next, the jobs and money are unlikely to return.Yesterday: Parliament failed to reach a majority on any one of four Brexit proposals, less than two weeks before the departure deadline.What’s next: The European Union’s chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, warned British lawmakers today that there was no alternative to Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan, which they have rejected three times. Mr. Barnier also said the possibility of a chaotic “no-deal” exit was becoming “day after day more likely.”Senior Trump administration officials granted security clearances to at least 25 people whose applications had been denied by career civil servants for “disqualifying issues,” a White House whistle-blower has told Congress.The whistle-blower, Tricia Newbold, is a manager in the Personnel Security Office. She told a House committee last month that two current senior White House officials were among those who had been rejected, according to a memo that the committee’s Democratic staff released on Monday. (Read the memo.)The memo doesn’t identify any of the 25. The Times reported in February that President Trump had ordered his chief of staff, John Kelly, to grant clearance last year to Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law.Response: The White House did not respond to a request for comment. Congressional Republicans accused Representative Elijah Cummings, chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, of cherry-picking from Ms. Newbold’s interview.Go deeper: Ms. Newbold, who has worked in the White House for 18 years, said she chose to speak to the committee after attempts to raise concerns internally went nowhere.Scrutiny of the former vice president intensified on Monday after a woman said he “put his hand around my neck and pulled me in to rub noses with me” at a fund-raiser in Connecticut in 2009.The allegation by Amy Lappos is similar to one made last week by a former Nevada lawmaker, Lucy Flores, and comes as Mr. Biden prepares for a presidential bid. Response: Mr. Biden’s spokesman, Bill Russo, criticized what he said were misrepresentations of Mr. Biden’s past behavior and sought to link some of the attacks to Republicans.A racist photograph in a yearbook. Accusations of sexual assault. An appearance in blackface at a college party.Over the course of a week in February, revelations about the state’s top three elected officials seemed to threaten their political futures. But calls for resignations have faded, and Gov. Ralph Northam and Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax have increasingly returned to the public eye.Some Virginians say the crisis burned itself out by the time the legislature adjourned, while polls showed voters were less enthusiastic about resignations than their representatives were. Our correspondent reports from Richmond.Quotable: “Don’t apologize, move on, and everybody will talk about something else next week,” one Democratic strategist said. “Maybe we’ve been doing it wrong over the last 100 years.”Taylor Mac has challenged audiences with his masterwork, “A 24-Decade History of Popular Music.” The one-man, 24-hour show covers 246 songs from revolutionary times to the present, mixing maximalist, spectacular outfits and revisionist American history.The 45-year-old artist, pictured above, is now translating his genius for Broadway in a new play, “Gary: A Sequel to Titus Andronicus.”Emergency aid is stalled: The Senate voted down two disaster relief bills on Monday as Republicans and Democrats clashed over President Trump’s opposition to more help for Puerto Rico.Elections in Turkey: President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s party said it would challenge the results after completed ballot counting confirmed today that it had lost control of Turkey’s two largest cities, Ankara and Istanbul.Chicago mayoral vote: Two African-American women, Lori Lightfoot and Toni Preckwinkle, are in a runoff today. The city will become the largest in the U.S. to elect a black woman as its mayor.Suspect in rapper’s death: The Los Angeles police have identified a suspect in the fatal shooting of Nipsey Hussle over the weekend. On Monday, at least 19 people were injured during a stampede at a makeshift memorial.Snapshot: Above, cherry trees in Washington on Monday, the day that the blooms were at their peak, according to the National Park Service.N.C.A.A. basketball: The women’s Final Four is set. Baylor will face Oregon, and Notre Dame will play Connecticut on Friday.Horse racing deaths: Twenty-three horses have died since late December at Santa Anita Park, near Los Angeles, endangering the future of horse racing in California.Late-night comedy: “Today was April Fools’ Day, so if you saw anything in the news that was positive, that’s why,” Seth Meyers said.What we’re reading: This piece in Edible Queens. Dan Saltzstein, editorial director for special projects, recommends it, writing: “I adore the Queens Thai restaurant SriPraPhai. This year, it finally got a James Beard Award nomination. I also adore the 75-year-old owner’s modest reaction to the honor.”Cook: A dinner of roasted fish with sweet peppers keeps dishwashing to a minimum. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)Watch: “Dumbo,” Tim Burton’s live-action remake of the Disney tale of the airborne baby elephant, “takes a turn toward the fascinatingly weird,” our critic writes.Read: A history of the 1969 moon landing and a new novel from Sally Rooney, the author of “Conversations With Friends,” are among the 10 books to watch for this month. Listen: Still thinking about Jordan Peele’s “Us”? On our “Still Processing” podcast, two Times reporters, Jenna Wortham and Wesley Morris, discuss the film’s central question (without spoilers): Are any of us ever truly free from the past?Smarter Living: Bored with the same old same-old? Behavioral scientists have found ways to make everyday experiences feel new again. Try changing the layout of your desk, or shifting from your home office to a coffee shop or a library. Less routine means more room for a fresh sense of gratification.And a healthy diet can do more to counter cognitive decline, neurologists say, than dietary supplements.We often ask readers for Back Story ideas. Zach Lewis of Chicago suggested we look at the naming of black and white rhinos, both of which are in fact gray.They have different faces. The black rhino, which tends to eat trees and bushes, has a pointed upper lip, while the grass-grazing white rhino has a broader one.In 2003, Kees Rookmaaker, a rhino researcher, analyzed 10 theories about the names.A popular idea was that the Afrikaans word “wyd,” or Dutch “wijd,” meaning “wide,” became “white.” “Black” was simply an easy contrast.Some other theories: The grazing rhino looked white in grasslands; it rolled in lighter mud or was often covered in bird droppings; albinism is more common among white rhinos; and that at some point, the rhinos were noticeably lighter and darker.The mistranslation theory was the one he found least likely. “There is no record of ‘wydrhinoceros’ in the literature,” he emailed recently, noting that Dutch speakers would have used “breed,” meaning “broad,” rather than “wijd.”Speaking of eye-catching fauna, a new species of tarantula has become a scientific celebrity. But the discovery has renewed an old ethical debate about specimen collection and “biopiracy.”That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Inyoung Kang, a home screen editor based in London, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the persistent racial divide in New York City’s public school system.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Seafood specialty of Maryland (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times’s Sports section is adding two staff members: David Chen, from our Metro section, as an investigative reporter, and Sopan Deb, from our Culture section, to cover the N.B.A. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Calloway-Blatch and Lance BoothHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. President Trump had invited the publisher of The New York Times to an off-the-record dinner. The publisher, A. G. Sulzberger, said he preferred an on-the-record interview with reporters in the room. Mr. Trump agreed.That led to a wide-ranging interview in the Oval Office on Thursday, during which Mr. Trump called negotiations with Congress over the border wall “a waste of time” and said the job of president was a “loser” financially.Mr. Trump spoke in a low voice, his arms folded tightly, during questions about the Russia inquiry. But he was more good-humored at other points and grew most animated when condemning news coverage he considered unfair. Here are five takeaways from our interview.The president’s State of the Union address is slated for Tuesday night. A senior administration official said immigration would be the main theme.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. Ralph Northam, the Democratic governor of Virginia, is facing intense pressure from his own party to resign after a racist picture on his 1984 medical school yearbook page became public. The photo showed one person in blackface and one dressed as a Ku Klux Klan member.At first Mr. Northam, above, acknowledged that he was in the photo, but on Saturday he denied that he was either person pictured. He said he would not quit and asked Virginians to let him earn their forgiveness.“I cannot in good conscience choose the path that would be easier for me to duck the responsibility to reconcile,” Mr. Northam said.____3. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, above, entered the 2020 race for president, joining a Democratic primary field that is the most diverse in history. It remains to be seen how Mr. Booker’s relentless optimism will fare with a Democratic electorate energized by seething anger toward the president.A potential candidate, Howard Schultz, was greeted by protesters when he returned to his hometown, Seattle, on Thursday. Mr. Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, is considering running as an independent, a move many believe would hurt the Democrats’ chances.And there’s a thorny question several liberal candidates will have to navigate: Will people lose the choices offered by private health insurance under a single-payer system? The 2020 race will be the first time many leading Democratic candidates will have to explain and defend “Medicare for all.”____4. As cities and towns in the Midwest began assessing deaths, injuries and damage after this week’s deep freeze, fast-warming weather is throwing the region into a temperature roller coaster.It could be 52 degrees in the Chicago region on Monday, up 73 degrees from Thursday morning, when the city saw a low of minus 21. “It’s fairly rare to see this much of a turnaround in temperature in this short of time,” a meteorologist with the National Weather Service said. Above, Lake Michigan’s shoreline in Chicago on Wednesday.We captured images of what life looked like in the frozen Midwest. Government officials said at least 21 deaths across the region were related to the bitter weather system.____5. The Trump administration is suspending the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, one of the last major nuclear arms control treaties with Russia.“We can no longer be restricted by the treaty while Russia shamelessly violates it,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, above, said Friday.President Vladimir Putin of Russia responded by also suspending his country’s observance of the treaty, and said Russia would build weapons previously banned under the pact and would no longer initiate talks with the United States on any matters related to nuclear arms control.Separately, President Trump seemed optimistic about reaching a landmark trade deal with China, but suggested he might leave some tariffs in place anyway.____6. The Senate delivered a bipartisan rebuke to President’s Trump foreign policy, voting overwhelmingly to advance legislation that expresses strong opposition to the withdrawal of United States military forces from Syria and Afghanistan. Above, U.S. Marines in Afghanistan last year.The amendment — written by the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, and backed by virtually every Senate Republican — will be added to a broader bipartisan Middle East policy bill expected to easily pass the Senate next week.The president of Afghanistan, Ashraf Ghani, is also concerned about a hasty American exit, and sent a letter to Mr. Trump on Tuesday offering him reduced costs for keeping U.S. troops in the country.____7. Two tech giants had two different weeks.Apple announced Tuesday that profits were flat and revenues were down in its most recent quarter, which the company attributed to the economic slowdown in China and diminishing demand for new iPhones.Facebook, despite a string of scandals in 2018, said Wednesday that it had gained new users around the world in the fourth quarter and reported a record profit.And Apple cut off Facebook’s access to apps and updates that it was working on internally, saying the social network violated Apple’s rules. Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, may be the only one who can fix Facebook’s privacy problem, our Business Day columnist writes.____8. Employers shrugged off both the monthlong partial government shutdown and fears of an economic slowdown to add 304,000 jobs in January. This marks the 100th consecutive month of job gains, more than double the previous record.But the economy did not escape the shutdown unscathed: The Congressional Budget Office estimated this week that the funding lapse shaved $11 billion off total output, $3 billion of which will never be recovered. Above, federal employees at a food kitchen in Washington, D.C., in mid-January.It was a tough week for digital media, with more than 1,000 employees laid off at BuzzFeed, AOL, Yahoo and HuffPost, and Vice Media starting the process of laying off some 250 workers. What went wrong? It’s complicated.____9. It’s Super Bowl Sunday. Follow our live coverage of Super Bowl LIII here.The road to the big game had plenty of twists and turns: mistakes, penalties, upsets — and a whole lot of fun. Here’s an illustrated look at how we got here.Tom Brady is now New England’s favorite adopted son. This has more to do with timing, some key lifestyle decisions and a certain fight with the N.F.L. over deflated footballs than with his collection of Super Bowl rings, our sports reporter writes.Hundreds of former N.F.L. athletes have said they started regularly taking painkillers when they entered the league. Their habits can persist in retirement, sending them on journeys into addiction.____10. And finally, don’t miss our Best Weekend Reads.We talk to the wife of El Chapo, Emma Coronel Aispuro, who has no regrets, and look at the full story of Lorena Bobbitt. We also write about the lives of remarkable black men and women who never received an obituary in The New York Times, including, clockwise from top left: Nina Mae McKinney, Alfred Hair, Oscar Micheaux, Gladys Bentley, Mary Ellen Pleasant, Major Taylor and Philip A. Payton Jr.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these 10 new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have a great week.Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump escalated the border wall fight in a televised speech last night, at the cost of leaving the government partly closed. He criticized political opponents for blocking the wall, although Democrats have offered $1.3 billion for border security measures like surveillance and fencing.The effects of the shutdown have begun to ripple across the economy, with mortgage applications delayed or canceled, public companies unable to complete deals and the well running dry for many federal employees.• Payday would have come this week for many of the 800,000 federal workers affected. With no paychecks on the way, their savings are evaporating and their credit cards are being maxed out.• The impasse is being felt elsewhere in the economy, including in home sales. Buyers are pulling out because of “economic uncertainty,” according to a National Association of Realtors survey. And closings are being delayed or canceled because customers’ mortgages were backed by federal agencies.• Several regulators are down to a skeleton staff, and companies are telling investors that their pending takeovers and stock sales could be delayed.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Trade talks in Beijing wrapped up today, as Chinese and American negotiators hurry to strike a deal before March, when the Trump administration has threatened to raise tariffs again.In recent weeks, the Chinese have made some concessions, resuming purchases of American soybeans, dropping retaliatory measures on U.S.-made cars. China has also offered to welcome more foreign investors and help limit forced transfer of overseas companies’ technology to Chinese businesses.Yesterday, President Trump wrote on Twitter that the discussions were “going very well!”But in Washington, many are sounding a note of caution: Are China’s promises too vague? Are they enforceable? One scholar described Beijing’s compromises as “a modest adjustment” when the U.S. and other countries want a “great leap in liberalization.”The Kim surprise:  Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, stepped off a train in Beijing yesterday to meet with President Xi Jinping, at the Chinese government’s invitation. China said the timing of his arrival was coincidental, but his presence was a reminder that the U.S. needs China’s cooperation to exert pressure on North Korea.Scheduling issues: The Trump administration has said that if negotiations fail, it will raise tariffs on Chinese goods on March 2. But there are several other key dates in play.• Mr. Trump will attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, which starts Jan. 22. But the U.S. is reluctant to set up formal trade negotiations there, possibly because the president plans to use his State of the Union address, on Jan. 29, to demand broader powers to raise tariffs.• But China wants progress before the Lunar New Year on Feb. 4, which is generally preceded by a surge in consumer spending.China has reason to rush: The trade tensions are hurting its economy.• The World Bank said yesterday that Chinese growth would slow to 6.2 percent this year from 6.5 percent last year. Global growth is predicted to fall to 2.9 percent from 3 percent in 2018.• Corporate insolvencies are expected to increase faster in China than in any other major economy this year, growing by a fifth in 2019.• Chinese bond yields are at a two-year low. Its central bank loosened credit conditions five times in the past year.• Signs of progress in the talks drove markets higher in the U.S. yesterday and in Europe and Asia today.The struggling retailer reached a deal yesterday to stay alive after a flurry of last-minute negotiations, the NYT’s Michael Corkery writes. Sears’s chairman, Edward Lampert, a hedge fund manager who took control in 2005, now has the opportunity to sweeten his $4.4 billion bid for the company. He is expected to enter an official bid at a court-supervised auction next week.Sears’ largest creditors are in the driving seat, and they have two options. They can let Mr. Lampert try to maintain it as a “going concern” or force it to liquidate by selling all its real estate, inventory, intellectual property and other assets.Other retail news: In the first retail holiday update, J.C. Penney reported yesterday that adjusted comparable sales fell 3.5 percent during the crucial shopping period. The department store chain, based in Plano, Tex., also said it would close three stores and may announce more as its new chief executive, Jill Soltau, attempts a turnaround.The media tycoon Sumner Redstone, 95, settled a long-running legal conflict with Manuela Herzer, writes Edmund Lee of the NYT. It was ostensibly focused on her right to his holdings, but it drew interest because of the salacious details it disclosed and the questions it raised about his mental state.Mr. Redstone and his daughter, Shari Redstone, run the private theater chain National Amusements, through which they control the CBS television network and a portfolio of companies at Viacom that include MTV and Paramount Pictures.Ms. Herzer, who is at least four decades younger than Mr. Redstone, had been named as a beneficiary of his will until he stripped her from the document in 2015 and forced her out of his mansion in Beverly Hills.Fallout from the ensuing court battle led Mr. Redstone to scale back his involvement in CBS and Viacom, and prompted a succession struggle that put his daughter at the top of the media empire.Court filings show that Ms. Herzer must now pay back $3.25 million in gifts and money received while she was Mr. Redstone’s companion.Investment bankers at the embattled financial institution are steeling themselves for a double-digit cut to their bonus pool, according to the FT.Deutsche has been battered by bad news in the past year: Its stock price hit record lows, competitors are gobbling up its market share, and top-level employees are jumping ship as it fires thousands of others. In the third quarter, the bank said that revenue at its trading desk sank 15 percent.Last year, the company paid out 2.2 billion euros in incentives to employees; the final amount for this year will be announced on March 22.MetLife said Michel Khalaf, president of the insurer’s U.S. and Europe, Middle East and Africa businesses, would become its chief executive when Steven Kandarian retires on April 30. (WSJ)Herbalife Nutrition said Michael Johnson would return as its chief executive, after Richard Goudis, his successor, resigned over comments made before his promotion. (WSJ)Monzo, a banking start-up, is hiring Gary Hoffman, a former Barclays vice chairman who steered Northern Rock through its emergency bailout early in the financial crisis, as chairman. He will replace Denise Kingsmill. (FT)Deals• Executives from Siemens and Alstom met yesterday with Margrethe Vestager, the European Union competition commissioner, in an effort to rescue their troubled rail deal. (Bloomberg)• A six-month lockup period on stock in the smartphone maker Xiaomi expires today, letting employees and cornerstone investors sell shares. (Bloomberg)• Mexico’s new government is looking to woo investors and bolster initial public offerings by reducing its tax rate on them. (FT)• GlaxoSmithKline will look to buy early-stage assets and make partnerships, said the drugmaker’s chief executive, Emma Walmsley. (Reuters)Tech• Larry Ellison, the executive chairman of Oracle and a longtime friend of Elon Musk, disclosed a $1 billion stake in Tesla in regulatory filings. (MarketWatch)• Facebook, Twitter and YouTube are seeking input from hundreds of groups, including right-leaning ones, to help referee political speech. (WSJ)• Want to delete the Facebook app? On some Samsung smartphones, you can’t. (Bloomberg)• Skyworks, which supplies semiconductors to Apple, lowered its earnings guidance, citing weakness across its largest smartphone customers. (CNBC)• Apple’s Tim Cook earned $15.6 million last year, according to a regulatory finding — an increase of nearly 22 percent over 2017. (CNET)• Mr. Cook criticized Qualcomm as charging “exorbitant prices” to use its patents and employing “illegal” licensing policies, dashing hopes of a settlement in the companies’ legal fight. (CNBC)• Officials in Vietnam say Facebook failed to remove “slanderous content,” violating local law. (FT)Politics and policy• Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chief, shared polling data with an associate tied to Russian intelligence during the 2016 race, prosecutors said. (NYT)• There’s a sealed grand jury subpoena demanding information from an unnamed foreign corporation, which may or may not be from Robert Mueller’s special counsel investigation. The Supreme Court is letting it proceed. (NYT)• The Russian lawyer who met with Trump campaign officials in 2016, Natalia Veselnitskaya, was charged by federal prosecutors in Manhattan with trying to thwart a separate money-laundering investigation. (NYT)• Democrats are demanding a delay in the Trump administration’s plan to lift sanctions on the aluminum businesses run by Oleg Deripaska, a Russian billionaire linked to the Kremlin. (FT)Best of the rest• Barbie is heading to the big screen, in a live-action film starring and co-produced by Margot Robbie. The news of the film lifted stock in the toy’s manufacturer, Mattel. (FT)• Has the market hit bottom? There are arguments either way. (Bloomberg)• Steve Eisman, the fund manager known for his role in the book “The Big Short,” is nervous about another threat to the financial system: BBB-rated corporate bonds. (FT)• Small-cap stocks seem poised for another year of double-digit profit gains, even as earnings at larger firms falter. (WSJ)• Chinese buyers have been the top foreign investors in both units and dollar volume of residential real estate for six years straight, with a focus on million-dollar properties. Now, more middle-class investors are hunting for affordable homes. (CNBC)• It may be the wrong time for anything radical at Barclays, but the activist Edward Bramson might still be good on its board. (WSJ)• By 2030, emerging markets are likely to have blossomed into seven of the top 10 economies in the world, with China at the top of the list and India surpassing the U.S. (Bloomberg)• American stock values: headed for a “conscious recoupling” with global equities? (WSJ)• Dubai’s ruler has plans to triple the size of his city-state’s financial center. (FT)• Hedge funds posted a 4.07 percent annual loss last year, beating the market’s performance for the first time in a decade; the S&P 500 fell 4.38 percent. (CNBC)• Palladium is on a tear, with the metal’s per-ounce price rising more than 140 percent since the beginning of 2016 and reaching $1,329 yesterday. It’s primarily used in catalytic converters, and became more expensive than gold in December. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you Thursday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter Eavis and Binyamin AppelbaumMaybe the markets were not overreacting.With the United States economy posting solid numbers last year, the alarming signals coming out of stock and bond markets seemed out of whack with the real world. President Trump’s bellicose trade actions were a concern, but hiring was strong and corporate earnings were surging.But this week, companies have issued warnings about the health of their businesses that suggest investors were right to be worried about growth. On Wednesday, Apple reduced its revenue expectations for the first time in 16 years, citing weak iPhone sales in China. On Thursday, Delta Air Lines said its fare revenue, while growing, would fall short of the company’s earlier forecast. And the American manufacturing sector slowed sharply last month, according to a closely watched index released Thursday.In the coming weeks, scores of companies will report their fourth-quarter results. A senior White House economics official acknowledged that there could be a torrent of bad news from corporate America.“It’s not going to be just Apple,” Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, told CNN on Thursday. “There are a heck of a lot of U.S. companies that have a lot of sales in China that are basically going to be watching their earnings be downgraded next year until we get a deal with China.”He seemed to suggest that was not necessarily bad, because it could help the Trump administration achieve its goal of getting China to make trade concessions to the United States.Those comments did little to assuage the fears of investors. The S&P 500 stock index closed down about 2.5 percent, leaving it more than 16 percent below the high it hit in September. But perhaps the most notable move was in the market for government bonds, where investors park their money in times of stress or when they expect the economy to slow. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, fell to 2.56 percent, well below the level it reached in early November, when investors were more optimistic about the economy.“On days like today people say, ‘Crud, I’ve got to buy tons of bonds,’” said Jim Vogel, a fixed income strategist at FTN Financial. “That’s driven by a large change in sentiment.”Important indicators still show the American economy is growing at a decent clip. A measure of employment in the private sector in December, released Thursday, was higher than expected. And ahead of the Labor Department’s monthly jobs report on Friday, analysts estimated that employers added about 180,000 jobs in December.Despite this, companies and consumers are facing challenges that could make them more cautious about spending money. If they pull back, the economy will suffer. Apple’s warning provides strong evidence that the trade tensions with China are taking a toll. And if more indicators show the American economy stumbling, investors will become more convinced that the Federal Reserve’s recent interest rate increases are dampening activity.Corporate profits — and stock prices — are highly sensitive to global economic weakness. Foreign sales accounted for 45 percent of the revenues of companies in the S&P 500 stock index over the last five years.There are signs of Mr. Trump’s policies beginning to weigh on domestic demand, too. The Institute for Supply Management said Thursday that its index of manufacturing activity fell sharply in December, the largest one-month drop since the last recession.The manufacturing index fell to what is still considered a healthy level, consistent with other data generally showing that the economy remains in good shape. But the downward trend contributed to a growing sense of unease on Wall Street about how soon the current expansion might end.“When it has seeped into the survey it probably means it’s three to five weeks old,” Mr. Vogel said.Indeed, investors are so convinced trouble is coming that they are betting the Federal Reserve will abandon its plans to raise interest rates in 2019.Fed officials predicted in mid-December that the central bank would raise its benchmark rate twice this year, moving the rate into a “neutral” range that neither stimulates nor discourages economic activity. By the end of trading Thursday, the odds of an interest-rate cut in 2019 had climbed above 50 percent.Robert Kaplan, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, reinforced those expectations, telling Bloomberg Television that the Fed should wait at least a few months before considering any additional increases.“We shouldn’t be taking any further action until some of these uncertainties resolve themselves, and I think that could take several months,” he said on Thursday.Mr. Kaplan, however, is not a voting member of the Fed’s policymaking committee this year. The committee comprises the Fed’s board of governors and a rotating selection of five of the 12 presidents of regional reserve banks.An indication of the Fed’s views could come Friday morning, when the Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, is scheduled to answer questions at a public appearance with his two immediate predecessors, Janet Yellen and Ben S. Bernanke.“There’s a belief he’s willing to back off, but we haven’t seen that yet,” Mark Haefele, global chief investment officer at UBS Wealth Management, said, referring to Mr. Powell. “If the Fed hikes rates in March, it’ll be a mess.”And on Thursday an ominous event occurred in the government bond market. The yield on the 5-year Treasury note fell below that of the 3-month Treasury bill. Yields are generally higher on longer-term debt. An inversion of that pattern signals a loss of confidence in longer-term economic prospects and has often served as an early warning of a recession.Investors and corporate executives have experience with slowdowns in large overseas economies, but they have not had to simultaneously grapple with the effects of a trade war. In explaining Apple’s lowered sales forecast, the company’s chief executive, Tim Cook, said, “The economic environment in China has been further impacted by rising trade tensions with the United States.” Apple’s stock plunged nearly 10 percent on Thursday, taking its market value down to around $675 billion, well below the $1.1 trillion it reached as recently as October.Mr. Trump’s tariffs have raised prices on a wide range of Chinese components used by American manufacturers. Roughly half of the companies in the I.S.M. survey said tariffs were weighing on profits, or raising costs.Linton Crystal Technologies, a firm based in Rochester, makes specialized furnaces used to grow silicon tubes, which are cut into wafers for semiconductors and solar panels that are sold to customers all over the world. The work was once performed entirely in the United States. But even though they are still designed, assembled and customized in the United States, the machines’ components now are built in China.Mr. Trump has said the goal of his trade policies was to convince companies like Linton to bring back jobs from China. Mr. Hassett emphasized on Thursday that the Trump administration expected the domestic economy to remain strong, and that companies focused on the United States would benefit.But Todd Barnum, Linton Crystal’s chief operating officer, said the cost of making furnaces entirely in the United States was prohibitive. And as a result of the tariffs, the company is also moving design work to China — a move Mr. Barnum said would save hundreds of thousands of dollars in tariffs by reducing the need for prototypes to be shipped to the United States.“Our customers don’t care if it was manufactured in the United States,” Mr. Barnum said. “They care about the highest quality at the lowest dollar.”Carlos Tejada, Amie Tsang and Jack Nicas contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.India’s economic problems threaten to undermine the prime minister, businesses in Britain prepare for a chaotic Brexit and Apple takes a strong stand on data privacy. Here’s the latest:India’s jobless rate hit 6.1 percent in the last year, its highest level in 45 years, according to a report published on Thursday in the independent Indian newspaper Business Standard.Alarm spread over the figure, as did accusations that the government had been trying to cover up the bad news. Two government advisers resigned in protest of its failure to release the economic data.The developments could deepen Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vulnerability in national elections that are expected to take place in early May.Background: Mr. Modi swept into office in 2014 with a campaign focused on jobs and reviving the economy. But since then, droughts, a sluggish manufacturing sector and Mr. Modi’s widely criticized decision to replace most of India’s currency have fueled unemployment and contributed to an economic slowdown.Already, the impact of the economy is beginning to hurt Mr. Modi. In recent local elections, described as the “semifinals” of Indian politics, his party suffered its worst defeat in recent years across five states.Companies across Britain, faced with increasing uncertainty around the country’s departure from the E.U., have been stockpiling products, making backup plans and exploring new shipping routes. International banks are shifting thousands of jobs from Britain to the Continent.“It’s meant extra resources, extra overtime, to get it done,” said one executive. “It’s incredibly annoying. It’s frustrating.”By the numbers: The economy is 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if Britain had voted to remain in the E.U. in 2016, according to one research institution. And investment in the auto sector was found to have plunged by almost 50 percent in 2018.What’s next? Uncertainty is intensifying. Parliament remains at an impasse, with under 60 days to the March 29 deadline to leave the E.U.Solidarity elsewhere: The messy and self-destructive Brexit process in Britain has made E.U. membership more popular in other member countries, even among populists, writes our chief diplomatic correspondent in Brussels.The kingdom announced that its crackdown on high-level corruption, led by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, was over and claimed it had helped retrieve $106 billion for the state treasury.A government statement said that the “anticorruption committee” had summoned 381 people. Of those detained, 87 were released after signing confessions and agreeing to settlements, while 64 had been referred to the public prosecutor.Background: About 15 months ago, the Saudi government detained hundreds of businessmen, former officials and even members of the royal family at a Ritz-Carlton hotel, where many were subject to coercion and physical abuse, according to witnesses.Analysis: The end of the crackdown may be part of an effort by Saudi Arabia to repair its image, which took a hit after the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi last year by Saudi operatives.In other Saudi news: A Filipina maid was executed this week after being found guilty of murder, Philippine officials said, but details about her case were not made public.As negotiators were concluding the second of two days of trade negotiations between the world’s two largest economies, President Trump said there was a “good chance” of striking an agreement.Liu He, China’s vice premier, was expected to formally propose that Mr. Trump meet with President Xi Jinping next month.In other Washington news: The Senate voted to pass nonbinding bipartisan legislation that expressed opposition to Mr. Trump’s withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan and Syria, the second time in two months that the Senate has rebuked the president’s foreign policy.“Waste of time”: Mr. Trump, in an interview with our reporters, said that he had all but given up on negotiations with Congress over his border wall. He also dismissed any wrongdoing in investigations that have ensnared his associates. Apple: Chief executive Tim Cook cut off Facebook’s access to apps and updates that it was working on internally, because the social media company had violated Apple’s rules with a research app that snooped on users’ online activity.Birth tourism: Three people who ran businesses that helped women give birth in the U.S. to secure American citizenship for their babies were arrested as part of a broad federal probe cracking down on an industry that has become increasingly popular, particularly among Chinese nationals.Polar vortex: At least eight deaths have been associated with the record-breaking cold snap sweeping through much of the U.S. Midwest, and hospitals have been treating dozens of frostbite and hypothermia cases. Thousands of flights were canceled, and schools and universities were closed.Soccer and human rights: An increasing number of powerful sports executives have called for the release of a Bahrain-born soccer player, Hakeem al-Araibi, who has refugee status in Australia but has been detained in Thailand since late November. The case represents the first time that sporting bodies have come together to “address the fate of a single person,” one of Mr. Araibi’s supporters said.New Zealand: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern scrapped her initial targets in an ambitious plan to build 100,000 new homes over the next decade, signaling that a solution to the country’s shortage of affordable housing remains out of reach.Iran: Britain, France and Germany, in an attempt to bolster Iran’s economy while skirting U.S. sanctions, have set up a company that would essentially allow goods to be bartered between companies. Whether anyone will actually use it remains to be seen.11 days offline: Tonga, a remote island northeast of New Zealand, was forced into digital darkness after an underwater fiber-optic cable was severed on Jan. 20, cutting off internet connections, international calls and even credit card payments. Repairs are underway, and some connectivity has trickled back.Sri Lanka: Our Frugal Traveler hopped on a train from Colombo to Kandy, then from Kandy to Ella, to take in the lush, hilly terrain with rows of perfectly manicured tea plants. The country “is a place best seen slowly,” he writes.Overlooked no more: Forough Farrokhzad, who was perhaps the first female Iranian poet to write about the emotions and desires of women, elevating her among the great voices of Persian literature. Her death, from a car crash in 1967, was regarded as a national tragedy in Iran, but she didn’t receive a Times obituary. Until now.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: End the week with a glass of red wine and an Italian-American classic: pasta alla vodka.Does your office leave you with pain in your wrists, back or neck? Here’s how to make your workstation ergonomically correct.Unfamiliar with podcasts? Our connoisseur has recommendations to help you start.On this day in 1786, a Briton living in India delivered a discourse on a little-known proposition: Sanskrit, Persian, Latin, Greek and other languages might have a common source.The commentary set off the field of comparative linguistics. We know its fruits today as the concept of Proto-Indo-European, a mother language for dozens of tongues. The idea revolutionized not only the study of language but the sense of human history.The man who delivered the talk, Sir William Jones, was, predictably, a student of languages and culture. Less predictably, he was in India because he was also a legal expert — the same reason he ultimately became convinced of his theory.He arrived many decades before the Raj, or British government rule. The British East India Company was increasing its control over territories it had long traded in. Some of the company’s officials wanted British justices like Jones to supervise the administration of Indian courts; translations from Sanskrit to English were crucial to that effort.Jones’s work with translators enabled his remarkable insights.Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing misidentified the figure pictured in the Back Story. He is William Jones, not William James.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" Advertisement

      By JASMINE C. LEE

MARCH 26, 2019

The House failed on Tuesday to override President Trump’s veto of its resolution to block his national emergency declaration. The veto was the first of Mr. Trump’s presidency.Two-thirds of the House had to vote yes to override Mr. Trump’s veto. About 57 percent of representatives voted to block the emergency in February, and only three more representatives voted yes on Tuesday. Fourteen Republicans voted to override the veto.Republicans Who Voted YesNote: There are currently three vacancies in the House.Source: U.S. House of RepresentativesAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bythe editThere’s a simple reason so many colleges have chain restaurants: Students want them. By Tim HattonWelcome to The Edit. Each week in our newsletter, you’ll hear from college students and recent graduates about issues going on in their lives. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.It was easy to laugh when President Trump served the Clemson University football team a fast-food buffet at the White House. The sight of McDonald’s fries, cheeseburgers and sauce packets piled high beneath Abraham Lincoln’s portrait led to days of jokes on late night shows, Twitter and beyond.“I would think that’s their favorite food,” Mr. Trump said.The spread was a strange choice for the setting, but the president wasn’t completely wrong about how college students eat. A 2015 study found that more than 70 percent of college students surveyed ate fast food at least once a day. Another survey found that 45 percent of adults ages 20 to 39 eat fast food or pizza on any given day.A number of factors could explain this high rate of fast food consumption by college kids. For some of us, it’s the first time we are free to decide what we’re going to eat. We also tend to stay up late, and fast food is available in large quantities at all hours of the day and night.But there’s another, more obvious explanation: College students eat fast food because it’s right in front of them, served on campus by their schools.I go to the University of Oklahoma, so let’s use that as an example. The school operates 30 places to eat on campus, including nine chain restaurants like Starbucks and Quiznos. To me, the chains seem to drum up more excitement than their independent counterparts.The vendor I visit most often is the Chick-fil-A in the student union, where I pick up breakfast two or three times a week. My routine continued when I commuted to an internship this summer and ate breakfast at a stand-alone Chick-fil-A instead.It’s clear to see how Chick-fil-A benefits from the habit I picked up at school. “Restaurants targeting college campuses makes a lot of sense because, basically, you have this bubble that most students live in, right?” said Sam Oches, who has written about campus dining for QSR, a food service trade magazine. “It’s a very captivated audience. They’re going to build a loyalty to your brand in college that they can carry on to the rest of their lives.”Mr. Oches added that schools often benefit financially from keeping students on campus, instead of letting them buy food elsewhere. He said schools “don’t really want the students to go to town. Spending their money on campus is a lot better for the university.”Following that logic, I assumed chains might also save universities money. Brands gain loyal customers by having locations on college campuses, so I thought they could be paying schools for this access.I thought wrong. After franchise fees and other costs, branded restaurants are 7 to 10 percent more expensive for my university to operate than generic ones, according to Dave Annis, the associate vice president and director of housing and food services at Oklahoma.He also said it’s worth it.“Ten, 15 years ago, food service wasn’t even in the top 10 reasons you would pick a university,” Mr. Annis said. “Current studies show food services are in the top three reasons a student picks a university. Having a competitive food service helps us recruit.”Grand Canyon University, a private Christian school in Phoenix, helps demonstrate the correlation between amenities like broad dining options and recruiting. Over the past several years, the school has increased its offering of brand-name restaurants on campus relative to non-franchise options. The school has also seen huge gains in enrollment in that span, from under 1,000 students on campus in 2009 to just over 20,000 in 2018.“There’s always that balance in school, trying to figure out where you’re going to eat,” said Gwen Massett, who graduated from Grand Canyon University in December with a degree in digital film. “It really comes down to making the time to cook or buy food. Realistically, though, a lot of students end up eating at Chick-fil-A, Subway or Taco Bell.”There are no franchises on campus at John Brown University in Siloam Springs, Ark. The school is much smaller than Oklahoma and Grand Canyon, with just under 2,000 students on campus. “The licensing costs and royalty fees, infrastructure costs and supply chain logistics can make it cost-prohibitive with limited enrollment,” Christine Blaha, the school’s food service director, wrote in an email.Students at John Brown want to see a franchise on campus anyway.“That’s an idea we’ve been lobbying for, and by ‘lobbying for,’ I mean complaining about,” said Owen Terexia, a freshman political science major at John Brown. “If there was something like a Chick-fil-A you could use your meal plan on, people wouldn’t hesitate to do that.”When Oklahoma students complained that they wanted healthier options and more variety in their dining options, Mr. Addis and his team gave the student body four new dining options to choose from. Ultimately, students voted for Raising Cane’s Chicken Fingers, choosing taste over nutrition.Mr. Addis said Cane’s has been popular with students, “which leads us always to question, when the students ask for something: Do we give them what they say they want, or what they really want?”This, it seems, is the central issue: Schools aren’t choosing to install franchise restaurants on their own, but because students have asked for them.Like pulling all-nighters in the library or complaining about too little parking, the worst of my fast food habit will probably be a college pastime I’ll leave behind after I graduate in May. Until then, I’ll be happy to keep having Chick-fil-A for breakfast.Elite Law Firm’s All-White Partner Class Stirs Debate on Diversity Paul, Weiss is more diverse at its top ranks than most of its peers. But its recent promotions underscored how far big firms have to go to elevate women and people of color.Freshman in College, Freshman in the Capitol: West Virginia’s 19-Year-Old Lawmaker Caleb Hanna, one of the youngest state legislators in the country, is a black man raised in a white family who represents a predominantly white district in West Virginia.A Tiny Screw Shows Why iPhones Won’t Be ‘Assembled in U.S.A.’ Apple decided several years ago to produce a high-end Mac in Texas. The problems that surfaced illustrate the challenges of domestic manufacturing.When College Rapists Graduate If they’re not held accountable at school, what’s to stop them from becoming the villain of another woman’s #MeToo story once they enter the work force?Duke University Apologizes Over Professor’s Email Asking Chinese Students to Speak English The university is conducting an internal review after a professor sent an email cautioning international students from speaking Chinese on campus.A Frat Boy and a Gentleman One researcher found that fraternities were embracing “a more inclusive form of masculinity,” based on equality for gay men, respect for women, racial parity and emotional intimacy.Hannah sent us a problem to figure out this week:I’m in my freshman year of college at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. At the beginning of my first semester, I joined a varsity team in a sport I had performed well at in high school and declared my major in a STEM field that I was curious enough about. With the first semester of college down, I can safely say that I excelled in both. I feel really bored in each place as well as my university at large, where despite being part of the honors college and getting to know a lot of people around me, I still find that I’m at the top of my classes and have trouble finding people who are as passionate about academics as I am. As I look to the next semester, I find that I want to quit my sport, change my major, and transfer — all in search of topics, activities, people and places that inspire and excite me in ways that my current surroundings lack.By exceeding where I am, I’ll prepare myself with skills that will benefit me later on: be it my sport’s work ethic and physical fitness, the critical thinking involved in my major, or a G.P.A. that might be higher than it could be at another school. Is it better to try to find places where I might be happier (and more excited) or to stay where it’s clear that I’ll be able to be ok? And should I try to modify my current situation in order to try to challenge myself more so that I at least stay engaged in what I’m doing vs. zoning out because things are too easy?Theo Balcomb, the managing producer of The Daily, weighed in on this one:I was right there with you midway through my first year. I can hear in your letter the care and time that you’ve put into this decision. I mean, my goodness, visiting colleges, getting into one, choosing your home for the next four years in the midst of saying goodbye to your childhood one is hard enough.Now you’re thinking about reversing all those decisions, and you’re looking over an abyss of more unknown. Acknowledging all that, let me say: You are doing the work that so many people don’t do.You are questioning whether you’re in the right place. Lots of people do that. You are worrying that your choices won’t lead you to where you want to be and won’t make you happy in the meantime. Lots of people do that. But you are thinking about a new way forward. You are putting yourself out there and jumping into something new. Lots of people don’t do that. I think they’re usually unhappier for it.I can’t say exactly what will happen if you choose to apply to transfer. I can’t say that you’ll get into another school that you’ll like. I can’t say that you will, and then you’ll go, and once you’re there you won’t think about all the things you missed by making that choice. I can say that I felt many of the absences you’re feeling. Being in a place I thought I wanted that wasn’t quite right, being afraid to accept that I made the wrong choice, being angry that I was surrounded by people who didn’t want to read books as much as I did.I think you can’t ignore those feelings too long. I ended up making my choice to apply to transfer because I needed to just try to see if there was another option. I had been burned by the college search once before. I hadn’t gotten into my dream school the first go around. I had settled and I thought it might be fine to settle for so many similar reasons that you cite: the honors program, the friends you’ve already made, your grades.I think you should consider putting those things aside for right now. Try looking at other options. Feel out how it might feel to be you a year from now on one of those campuses. Apply. If you think you need to have a sure bet of getting out, apply to a reach and a not-so-reach. Going through that will solidify, I think, your feelings on where you are. You might hunker down on the things you do like about your current situation. Or you might start living a bunch of new fantasy lives in your head that you’d rather live out. That’s how you’ll know if you need to jump or not.I hope no matter what happens, you find a group of people as passionate about academics as you are. Knowing how much thought you’re putting into this decision, I know you can find that where you are or wherever you might go.P. S. Just saying, transferring to Barnard College, which is famous for accepting a high number of transfer students, turned out to be the best decision I ever made.Navigating college and the years afterward can be tough, but we’re here to help! Maybe you’re wondering how to choose a major, or the best time to study abroad. Perhaps you’re out of school and figuring out how to budget. Send us an email at theedit@nytimes.com with the subject line, “Figure It Out.” Tim Hatton is a contributor to The Edit and a senior at the University of Oklahoma.  Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy John KoblinApple is coming to Hollywood.Delete that.Hollywood is going to Apple.On March 25, a delegation of producers, studio executives and big-name actors will enter the subterranean 1,000-seat Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino, Calif., for one of those Apple showcases, with the chief executive, Tim Cook, commanding the stage before a crowd of loyalists.This time around, the focus won’t be on the next must-have device. With iPhone sales showing signs of fatigue, the event is intended to draw attention to the company’s billion-dollar-plus bet on entertainment, an initiative that will put Apple in direct competition with Netflix, Amazon and HBO.The premiere date for the service is getting closer, with the first of a dozen or more shows likely to start streaming before the year is out. At next week’s presentation, Apple is expected to reveal details of what it has been working on with stars from both sides of the camera like Reese Witherspoon, Jennifer Aniston, Brie Larson, Jason Momoa, Octavia Spencer, J.J. Abrams, M. Night Shyamalan and Steven Spielberg.The tag line, “It’s show time,” appeared prominently on the invitations. For many of the show business people, this will be their first trip to Cupertino, the corporate home of their new patrons.Apple didn’t need stars before, but it needs them now. Although the company was the first publicly traded American firm to be valued above $1 trillion, its most recent earnings report showed flat profits and falling revenue.So the plan now is not only to sell devices, but to fill them with content. That has led the company into the alien territory of Hollywood, where local customs can clash with Silicon Valley folkways.Apple is a relatively late arrival to streaming. Netflix, Amazon and Hulu have offered original programming for several years and are now formidable presences at the Emmys. In 2018, there were nearly 500 scripted television shows available in the United States, with Netflix spending at least $8 billion on new content. Amazon, the Walt Disney Company and Warner Media have increased their programming budgets to keep pace.Apple has decided to put more emphasis on its services — think Apple Music and Apple Pay — to increase revenues. The strategy will include an expansion of Apple News, which is expected to be highlighted at the showcase, and the star-studded streaming service. Apple has negotiated with the likes of HBO, Starz and Showtime to populate its screens, Bloomberg has reported, but the centerpiece will be original programming.The event at the Apple Park campus in Cupertino is also meant to drive home — for iPhone fans and anyone in Hollywood who hasn’t been paying attention — just how many shows Apple has pulled together. Five series have completed filming. Around a half dozen more are on the verge of wrapping production, according to several people familiar with the shows who were not authorized to speak publicly. And the number of original productions is expected to increase in 2020.With all that new material, Apple will transform itself, seemingly overnight, from a tech giant into a more general enterprise, with a slate of original entertainment offerings sizable enough to put it in a league with Showtime, Hulu or FX.Interviews with more than a dozen people who have had dealings with Apple, all of whom said they couldn’t speak publicly about private discussions, suggest that, while the producers and stars appreciate having another deep-pocketed company to pitch, they also have … well, let’s call them concerns.Those concerns have arisen from the culture clash that may inevitably come about when a tech company that is used to guarding its trade secrets gets involved in show business, which runs on a stream of conversation, much of it of the just-between-us variety.Players expect to be kept in the loop. But many of the people working with Apple said they have received little or no information on how, exactly, their shows will be released. Or even when they will be released, other than a vague assurance of “later this year, probably fall.” They also don’t have a clear idea of Apple’s marketing plans for the shows. Or what their colleagues in the newly built Apple stable are up to.Apple’s entertainment team is based in Culver City, Calif., historically a center of moviemaking. It is led by two former Sony television executives, Jamie Erlicht and Zack Van Amburg, under the watch of the senior vice president of internet software and services Eddy Cue. Mr. Cue hired the Sony veterans in 2017, after Apple rolled out its first original series, a reality show called “Planet of the Apps,” which was a dud. About $1 billion was set aside for them to spend on programming, and they have blown well past that amount by now.While Apple may be a late arrival to the streaming party, its showcase will take place two and a half weeks before Disney is expected to preview elements of its new streaming platform, and many months before Warner Media provides details of its version.Apple’s entertainment team has not been totally opaque. It has provided feedback to individuals involved in the shows, but it has been tight-lipped about the marketing and rollout plans. The March 25 event may allay Hollywood’s concerns, but several people involved in the new programs have interpreted the lack of communication as a sign that there may not be a clear game plan.People involved in the coming series also said that Apple executives had expressed squeamishness when it comes to the portrayal of technology in the shows — how exactly are you using that iPhone? Or that Mac laptop?Apple was sensitive to a reputation it earned, early on, as a home for uplifting programming, with little or no room for the gritty antihero fare that has defined many critically acclaimed series over the last two decades, from “The Sopranos” onward. Executives at the company bristled when they discovered there would be scenes involving crucifixes in Mr. Shyamalan’s new thriller for the service, as The Wall Street Journal reported in September. But Apple ultimately allowed the crucifixes to remain, according to two people familiar with the series.Apple had no comment on any aspect of its streaming plans.Hollywood’s concerns have not prevented big names from making deals with the company. In all, Apple has ordered roughly two dozen series from the likes of Oprah Winfrey, Damien Chazelle, Chris Evans and others.The producer J.J. Abrams has two Apple series in the works, one with Jennifer Garner, who played the lead in the Abrams-produced ABC series “Alias,” and a musical show starring the singer-songwriter Sara Bareilles that is about to go into production.Apple has also given the green light to animated “Peanuts” specials and children’s shows made with Sesame Workshop, and it plans to round out its offerings with films it has acquired recently at Sundance and the Toronto International Film Festival.Here are the projects that have either completed filming or are nearing their wrap dates. They are the likeliest to appear in Apple’s first wave of shows.Untitled Series With Reese Witherspoon and Jennifer AnistonApple’s splashiest project is a behind-the-scenes series about a morning TV show. The company committed itself to two full seasons before seeing a script. Along with Ms. Witherspoon and Ms. Aniston, who are also producers, the cast includes Steve Carell, Billy Crudup and Mark Duplass. The series had some backstage drama last year, when its showrunner, Jay Carson, Hillary Clinton’s former press secretary and a supervising producer of “House of Cards,” was replaced by Kerry Ehrin, the co-creator of A&E’s “Bates Motel.” Brian Stelter, the CNN host and author of the 2013 book, “Top of the Morning: Inside the Cutthroat World of Morning TV,” serves as a consultant. Shooting for season one is nearly done.“Amazing Stories,” a Steven Spielberg RebootRevival of the NBC series of the same name. After its own showrunner problems — the original producer’s vision was too dark for almost everyone involved, including Mr. Spielberg — Edward Kitsis and Adam Horowitz, the duo behind the ABC series “Once Upon a Time,” took over. Expected to wrap soon.“Are You Sleeping?” a Mystery Starring Octavia SpencerA drama featuring the prolific Academy Award winner in the lead role, “Are You Sleeping?” is based on a crime novel by Kathleen Barber that featured a cold case and a sleuth with a podcast. According to Ms. Spencer’s Instagram account, shooting finished late last year.“For All Mankind,” a Ronald D. Moore Sci-Fi SeriesThis space drama from the producer of the cult-favorites “Outlander” and “Battlestar Galactica” is a alternate-history look at what would have happened if the global space race had continued. This one is in the can.“See,” With the “Aquaman” Star Jason MomoaA fantasy epic starring the “Aquaman” star (please note, the series is not called “Sea”) that poses the question, What would happen to humanity if everyone lost their sight? Also with Alfre Woodard, who has been in everything from “Scrooged” to “Luke Cage.” Now shooting.A New Shyamalan ThrillerA thriller from the maker of “The Sixth Sense” and “Glass” starring Rupert Grint, Lauren Ambrose and Nell Tiger Free. The story is a secret. Filming has come to an end.“Little America,” From the Writers of “The Big Sick”An anthology series focused on stories of immigrants coming to the United States. Produced by Lee Eisenberg (“The Office”) and the husband-and-wife screenwriting duo behind “The Big Sick,” Kumail Nanjiani and Emily V. Gordon. Now shooting.A Comedy From the “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia” Duo Rob McElhenney and Charlie Day, the stars and producers of the long-running FX and FXX sitcom. It’s done.“Central Park,” a Cartoon MusicalAn animated series — with songs! — from the “Bob’s Burgers” creator, Loren Bouchard, the “Frozen” voice actor Josh Gad and the producer Nora Smith. Should be finished in the next few months.“Home,” From the Documentary Filmmaker Matt TyrnauerAn unscripted series from the maker of “Scotty and the Secret History of Hollywood” and “Studio 54” that will take viewers inside lavish homes owned by non-celebrities. Expected to be finished in a few months.“Dickinson,” an Emily Dickinson ComedyA new spin on the reclusive poet of Amherst, Mass., from the playwright Alena Smith, who has written for Showtime’s “The Affair” and displayed her comedy chops with the cult Twitter account @TweenHobo and the 2014 novel “Tween Hobo: Off the Rails.” It stars Hailee Steinfeld, of “True Grit” and “Bumblebee,” as the title character, and the “30 Rock” alumna Jane Krakowski as her mother. Shooting is done.An earlier version of this article misstated the title of an ABC series made by Edward Kitsis and Adam Horowitz. It is “Once Upon a Time,” not “Once Upon a Fairy Tale.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start with the latest news about the partial government shutdown, a crucial vote in Britain’s Parliament and today’s confirmation hearing for the attorney general nominee.The president said on Monday that he had turned down a proposal by Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina to reopen the government for about three weeks to jump-start talks with Democrats.Mr. Trump also said he didn’t want the impasse over $5.7 billion that he has demanded for a wall on the southwestern border to continue, but it wasn’t clear what he saw as an alternative.Reaction: Polls show that a majority of Americans blame Mr. Trump and his party for the partial government shutdown, now in its fourth week. But among Republican voters, support for a wall is growing.The effects: The number of transportation security officers who aren’t showing up to work without pay keeps rising, leading to the closing of some airport checkpoints and longer wait times for travelers on Monday.From Opinion: Although the shutdown is painful, it’s a good time for T.S.A. workers to strike, two writers argue in an Op-Ed.Active-duty troops will most likely remain at the border with Mexico through September, the Defense Department said on Monday. About 5,900 troops were deployed there in October, as a caravan of Central American migrants made its way toward the U.S.The details: President Trump has said that a wall is necessary to stem a tide of migrants and drugs. We looked at the numbers he cites when describing the situation as a crisis.Closer look: Two Times journalists are filing occasional dispatches as they travel the length of the 2,000-mile border.Lawmakers are widely expected today to reject Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan to lead the country out of the European Union. A particularly severe loss could threaten Mrs. May’s government or even, she warned on Monday, the entire project. Britain is scheduled to leave the bloc on March 29, and most experts predict that a “no-deal” departure would be chaotic and economically damaging. We have live coverage leading up to the vote tonight in London.What’s next: If the measure fails, Mrs. May will face a range of possibilities, including quickly devising a backup plan or calling a second referendum.Reaction: “There’s an idea that we’ll all be all right in the end,” a political-science professor said. “Well, we may not.”Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, was stripped of two House committee seats on Monday, after he questioned why white supremacy is considered offensive.In an interview with The Times published last week, Mr. King said: “White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization — how did that language become offensive?”Mr. King has a long history of making racist remarks and insults about immigrants, and, with furor building, Republican leaders denounced him on Monday. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, suggested that Mr. King find “another line of work.”Response: Mr. King released a statement saying his comments had been misunderstood and that he would serve his district for “at least the next two years.”Just over a century ago, Jeannette Rankin of Montana won a seat in the House of Representatives, becoming the first American woman elected to federal office.One has become 131 — the number of women serving in both chambers of Congress as of this month. The Times photographed nearly all of them.Citizenship question rejected: A federal judge blocked the Trump administration from asking about citizenship in the 2020 census. The case will most likely reach the Supreme Court.Attorney general nominee: Confirmation hearingsfor William Barr, President Trump’s nominee for attorney genera are todayl. Follow our live coverage.  On Monday, Mr. Barr said he would allow the special counsel to continue his investigation into Russian election interference.President Trump and NATO: Mr. Trump privately said several times last year that he wanted to withdraw the U.S. from the 70-year-old military alliance with Europe and Canada.Wisconsin kidnapping plot: The suspect who has been charged with killing a couple and abducting their 13-year-old daughter, Jayme Closs, in October began planning the crime after a chance encounter, according to court documents.Inauguration spending: Private donors gave more than $100 million for President Trump’s inauguration two years ago, including $10,000 for makeup. Previously unreported details of the spending come as the inauguration committee faces legal scrutiny.Snapshot: Above, President Trump welcomed college football’s national champions, the Clemson Tigers, to the White House on Monday with a range of fast-food offerings. The press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, attributed the menu to the shutdown, as some White House employees have been furloughed.In memoriam: Carol Channing, a larger-than-life Broadway star, was known for her performances in “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes” and “Hello, Dolly!” She died today at 97.Late-night comedy: The comedy hosts were unsurprised by the news that the F.B.I. was worried that President Trump might be secretly working for Russia. “I think that’s ridiculous,” Stephen Colbert said. “There’s nothing secret about it.”What we’re listening to: This episode of “This American Life.” Remy Tumin, who writes our Evening Briefing, says it captured the magic of libraries. As one librarian notes, “It’s one of the last places you can go that you don’t have to buy or believe in anything to come in.” Cook: Try a tomato-free take on pasta puttanesca, with garlic, anchovies, capers and tuna. (And sign up for Five Weeknight Dishes for more recipes in your inbox.)Watch: Watch Felicity Jones play a young Ruth Bader Ginsburg in a scene from “On the Basis of Sex” narrated by the film’s director.Listen: Jon Caramanica and guests discuss the Puerto Rican superstar Bad Bunny on the latest “Popcast,” our pop music team’s podcast.Go: The Infinite Love Party in Brooklyn is billed as a sex-positive celebration of queer people, people of color and their allies. Smarter Living: You can train your memory by connecting numbers to letters that can transform to sounds, sentences and images. (Memorization champions use such systems to break world records.) But remembering names simply requires paying attention and then using the name immediately. “The most useful trick isn’t a trick at all,” observed a memory champion. “It’s focus.”And our Smarter Living editor, Tim Herrera, had a relevant conversation about focusing with the author Cal Newport.Today is the 10th anniversary of a miracle.On Jan. 15, 2009, Capt. Chesley Sullenberger safely ditched his US Airways Airbus A320 in the Hudson River after striking a flock of geese while taking off from New York City.But the so-called Miracle on the Hudson hardly stands alone.In 1982, a British Airways crew glided its Boeing 747 down when volcanic ash clogged all four engines.A Taca pilot landed near New Orleans when his Boeing 737’s engines flamed out in a storm in 1988.And a DHL crew survived a missile strike.Soon after taking off on a cargo flight from Baghdad to Bahrain on Nov. 22, 2003, their Airbus A300 was hit by a surface-to-air missile launched by Iraqi insurgents. The damage made its flight controls inoperable.Using only the engines to control the plane’s direction and altitude, the crew headed back to the airport and landed their aircraft (mostly) on the runway.Where’s their Tom Hanks movie?That’s it for this briefing. (By the way, the egg now has more Instagram likes than the population of Canada.)See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford for the wide-ranging cultural guidance and James K. Williamson for the scientific Smarter Living tips. Zach Wichter wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” In today’s episode, a Times reporter who covers the Justice Department discusses William Barr.• The Times is introducing several audio features for devices enabled with Amazon’s Alexa, including a news briefing hosted by Michael Barbaro of “The Daily.”• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Vegan protein source (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" Advertisement

      By ANNIE DANIEL

MARCH 7, 2019

The House passed a resolution 407-23 on Thursday condemning anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry. The measure began as a response to comments by Representative Ilhan Omar last week that pro-Israel activists were pushing “for allegiance to a foreign country.” Language that condemned other forms of hatred was eventually added as rank-and-file Democrats felt that Ms. Omar was being unfairly singled out.Every Democrat that voted approved of the measure, while 23 Republicans voted against it. Some lawmakers have asked for a resolution that exclusively rebukes anti-Semitism.Source: U.S. House of RepresentativesAdvertisement"
" Advertisement

      By JASMINE C. LEE and 
    
BLACKI MIGLIOZZI

FEB. 26, 2019

More than a dozen Republicans voted with Democrats to block President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the United States border with Mexico.If the Senate also passes the bill, Mr. Trump has promised that he would veto the bill to protect his emergency declaration.Several Republicans voted to block President Trump’s emergency declaration, including Representative Will Hurd of Texas, the only Republican lawmaker to represent a district on the United States border with Mexico.Democrats would need a supermajority, or more than two-thirds of the House and Senate, in future votes to override a veto by Mr. Trump.Note: There are currently three vacancies in the House.Source: U.S. House of RepresentativesAdvertisement"
" like a bossThe fitness start-up’s vice president of programming, who hydrates three different ways by 8 a.m., is essential to the company’s $4 billion valuation.CreditCreditLandon Nordeman for The New York TimesSupported byAs told to Natalie KitroeffRobin Arzón is a fitness instructor, but that label undersells her star power. She works at Peloton, a New York start-up that sells $2,245 bikes and $4,295 treadmills and streams live exercise classes to their internet-connected screens. Peloton prefers to call instructors like Ms. Arzón “talent” — because they are. From personal experience struggling through her classes, I can attest that Ms. Arzón is more like a cult leader than a coach; having weighed the options, I would rather die from cycling too fast than disappoint her. The company, which has sold 450,000 pieces of exercise equipment and may go public this year, last raised capital at a valuation of $4 billion. Some inestimable chunk of that is tied to Ms. Arzón.Part of her draw is a slate of catchphrases. “What’s six intervals” — of horrifically fast pedaling up the equivalent of a mountain — “to a queen?” she yells during class. “That little bit of panic that sets in,” she chirps, “that just means you care!” Her Instagram following tops 200,000, and the company says each of her workout sessions is taken 15,000 times.When Ms. Arzón, 37, whose official title is vice president of fitness programming, is not teaching or vigorously hydrating, she is also an Adidas brand ambassador and an author. Her book, a New York Times best seller, is “Shut Up and Run.” This month, I spent a week trying to keep up with her via text message.6:05 a.m. Make and guzzle H2O cocktail: room-temperature filtered water, dash of sea salt, quarter lemon, splash of apple cider vinegar. I don’t drink coffee, ever. I immediately feel replenished and energized. 6:30 a.m. Twenty-minute Vedic meditation. The second bedroom in my apartment is a Zen den with a plant wall, a small desk, books and cushions for meditation. 7 a.m. Cup of Onnit King Tea (Kenyan purple blend). I drink three or four cups of tea a day, ranging from matcha to herbal varieties. I spend the next 90 minutes on emails, reviewing my schedule, and get the most important messages out of the way. I really try to “eat the frog” with my most difficult task during this time so I can feel freer later in the day.I’m also multitasking by researching new music to play in class. I have over 1,000 Spotify playlists saved, organized by themes such as beat, mood, genre, running, spinning, lifting. 8 a.m. My husband and I have a 17-ingredient smoothie for breakfast. He created this monster smoothie, which is a staple of my day. Ingredients: vegan protein powder, magnesium, Athletic Greens, aloe vera, chlorophyll, glutamine, B.C.A.A.s, fresh kale/spinach, matcha powder, baobab, maca, nut butter, cacao nibs, chia seeds, moringa, water, ice. I have no idea how many calories are in this, and I don’t care. 8:50 a.m. Pick my looks. Between multiple workouts and being in front of the camera a few times during the day, I often have to style and pack two to five looks a day. Today I pack three outfits, including body wipes and on-the-go products to efficiently change in between meetings and workouts. 9 a.m. Pack all the snacks and all the food. I’m vegan, and I consume a lot of food to get me through the day. Today I’m bringing almonds, a Vega bar, an Athletic Greens packet (which I throw into a water bottle), Nuun tablets and a banana. I’ll probably eat all of that before lunch.9:30 a.m. Do my own workout at a private training facility. I dedicate five to seven hours a week to strength, conditioning and running on my own. Nothing keeps you raw like picking up heavy things.10:27 a.m. Lungs are burning so badly from my workout, it feels like I ingested fire. Quick shower and outfit change: I’m the master of being ready in under seven minutes. My hair is currently in braids, which marries style and efficiency.10:42 a.m. Uber to Tread studio listening to “Nice for What,” by Drake.11 a.m. Weekly senior staff meeting with Peloton’s chief content officer. I am snacking and hydrating. I drink more than a gallon of water a day.1:40 p.m. Uber home while listening to music and making my playlist for my ’90s Pop Run tonight.2 p.m. Continue researching music, making playlist for tonight, writing detailed class notes and creating the class plan. Each class playlist and class plan takes up to two hours of preparation. Peloton instructors are part D.J., part coach, part training partner. The class notes detail the workout, the songs, the exact timing of every part of the workout from warm-up to cool-down. There’s an art to it, just like a composer at an orchestra.5 p.m. Check my blood sugar. I’m a Type 1 diabetic, so I’ve been checking it once an hour all day. I also adjust my insulin depending on how I’m moving and what I’m consuming throughout the day.5:30 p.m. Showtime: 45 minutes of ’90s jams fuel the run on the Peloton Tread. After class, take photos with Peloton members and answer some of the 300 comments on my Facebook and Instagram posts today.7 p.m. Quick second shower, and then eat all the food. I’m hangry by this point. I cook most of my meals, but tonight it’s a veggie tofu curry with brown rice that’s left over from Sunday dinner.8 p.m. Watch “The Bachelor,” unapologetically. The physical energy expenditure from coaching while working out is obvious, but the psychic drain is very real. I need something at this point that demands absolutely nothing. 10 p.m. Bed. I’m in bed by this time every night, even on the weekend. Maybe 10 minutes of reading before I pass out. I just started “Brave, Not Perfect,” by Reshma Saujani. We are both former lawyers, and I love a good reinvention story.7 a.m. Wake up. I aim for nine hours a night religiously, and it’s the reason I have no social life.8 a.m. Do my own workout. Don’t bother showering because I’m running again in an hour and a half. I just use a baby wipe and keep it moving.10:30 a.m. Record Pop Fun Run and a marathon race prep class for 90 minutes.Noon My hair stylist, Tiffanie, is meeting me now to do my braids. I get my hair done once or twice a week.12:20 p.m. Review offers for branded sponsorships that came in to my agent, William Morris Entertainment. “Robinnyc” (my Instagram and Twitter name) is a brand within itself, so I’m always aware of that.3 p.m. Physical therapy session. I get P.T. or acupuncture every week. I really train, fuel and recover like a high-level athlete.5:30 p.m. Peloton cycling class for 45 minutes. My ride tonight was bought out by PwC.6:55 p.m. Stuck in traffic with a chatty Uber driver. I need to eat right now before I jump out of this vehicle. There’s no desire for small talk after performing in front of people all day. I’m an introvert by nature, actually. I once heard Amy Schumer describe her “outgoing persona” vs. an “introverted energy system” on “Oprah” and thought, “Aah, that’s me.”It’s an interesting job, to work out in front of a camera. There’s no room for an off day when you’re the source of energy, instruction and entertainment.6:47 a.m. Pack for a Denver speaking engagement with the Integer Group, a marketing agency.8 a.m. Work out. Pro athletes don’t only work out during a game. I train like a pro to be able to teach. It requires being able to host a show, coach and work out.12:30 p.m. Two-hour meeting with all treadmill instructors. We are workshopping ways to keep content fresh. We discuss everything from social media activations, music themes, combo movements, loading variations, tempo and proprioception.4:30 p.m. Teach two cycling classes for a total of 40 minutes. Powerful energy in those riders.7:16 p.m. Board a plane to Denver. I love flying. I almost never do work on flights and consider it a mini-vacation to read and listen to podcasts. I listen to Joe Rogan, Tim Ferris, “Modern Love,” “Stuff You Should Know,” Oprah and “GaryVee.”6 a.m. Gym for an hour. My days “off” are Thursday and Sunday, but I always have shoots and speaking engagements on Thursdays because they won’t disrupt my teaching schedule.7:50 a.m. Avocado toast for breakfast. Half my carry-on is food (salad, noodles, trail mix, bars). If I’m in a pinch and there’s nothing healthy, I eat oatmeal, which most hotels have. I also travel with Greens powder, a great nutrient boost. I refuse to eat like crap or I will have no energy.10 a.m. Give my speech.11:08 a.m. Off to the airport while working on social media for Adidas’s “She Breaks Barriers” campaign.12:30 p.m. In the airport, I am stopped by five different Peloton members. I love those interactions. People are so excited, and it’s palpable to feel the impact we have being in their homes. One time, someone took a photo of my shopping cart at Whole Foods, and that was odd, but it’s been mostly positive encounters. Even dogs and babies know and respond to our voices.4:25 p.m. On the plane, reviewing the weekly report that distills all of our workout data. Similar to a TV network, we look at the numbers and see what’s trending: What do our members want more or less of, exhibited by workouts taken daily/monthly/yearly.5:31 p.m. Just found out Shonda Rhimes is following me on Instagram. I very much love her work (ethic), so that’s a nice surprise.8:47 p.m. Back home in Manhattan. Soup, salad and bed. I’m totally drained!7 a.m. Make a full breakfast of tofu scramble and avocado toast while I look over instructor audition videos. It’s a small bull’s-eye that we are looking for. Peloton instructors need to be fitness experts but also be able to essentially host a live TV show while working out. It’s definitely not an open casting call, and never will be.1:30 p.m. Teach a women’s history cycling ride. People flew in from Kansas, Hawaii and Alaska to take it in person. One woman told me the bike saved her marriage because she and her partner now have a common hobby.4:30 p.m. Meet with my producer. Every instructor has a producer to watch, review and plan his or her content, marketing and social media for Peloton.7:30 p.m. Make jackfruit taco bowls for dinner. Friday night ritual is a movie with husband. Tonight it’s “Free Solo.” I’m a sucker for athletic feats — shocker.Interviews are condensed and edited.An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of a television producer and writer. She is Shonda Rhimes, not Rimes.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Audra D. S. Burch, Alan Blinder and John Eligon[For more coverage of race, sign up here to have our Race/Related newsletter delivered weekly to your inbox.]MONTGOMERY, Ala. — Known as one of the most celebrated civil rights lawyers of his time, Morris Dees spent nearly a half-century building the Southern Poverty Law Center into one of the nation’s wealthiest and best-known legal advocacy groups.He faced down the Ku Klux Klan in the 1980s, and developed his organization, founded in 1971 near the church in Montgomery where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. preached, into a crusading anti-hate empire dedicated to fighting extremism in the United States.But the group now finds itself beset by internal conflict. Mr. Dees has been fired and other top executives have quit. The staff is demanding that leaders address a climate of intolerance inside its offices. The tumult, including pointed allegations of sexual harassment and racial discrimination, comes as the center’s influence has surged in the Trump era.With an endowment of about $471 million, an enormous sum in the nonprofit world, it has won over donors with deep pockets. In the aftermath of the deadly violence at a white nationalist gathering in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017, Tim Cook, the head of Apple, announced the company would donate $1 million.Last year, the center identified over 1,000 hate groups across the country. Its Intelligence Project, which monitors “the radical right,” has been used as a resource by law enforcement officials and the news media.At the same time, the center has come under scrutiny from conservative groups who have accused the organization of maligning them for political differences. Since the 2016 presidential election, hiring at the S.P.L.C. has increased.Mr. Dees’s firing ended a career studded with successes but shadowed by questions of sexual misconduct and racism. The center’s president, Richard Cohen, and other senior leaders recently said they would follow Mr. Dees out the door.Although the center has refused to detail the circumstances behind Mr. Dees’s firing, it said it had dismissed its 82-year-old co-founder after he was twice investigated for “inappropriate conduct.” Both inquiries, the organization suggested, led to discipline.Mr. Dees has denied wrongdoing, but he acknowledged that he was the subject of a 2017 complaint made by a female employee who said his actions had made her feel uncomfortable.Current and former employees said Mr. Dees’s dismissal was only part of the turbulence rattling a social justice organization afflicted by morale issues, staff turnover and a sense that the center has not embraced the values that it champions across the country.“Aside from the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, it has probably been the single most responsive and reliable civil rights institution in the South,” said U. W. Clemon, who was the first black federal judge in Alabama.This article is based on interviews with more than a dozen current and former S.P.L.C. employees, board members and close observers, as well as reviews of internal documents and public records. Most people who were interviewed spoke on the condition of anonymity because they said they feared retaliation.Discontent among employees at the center boiled over this month when a well-respected black lawyer announced her resignation.After the resignation, 20 employees signed their names to a letter to the organization’s executives, writing that “allegations of mistreatment, sexual harassment, gender discrimination, and racism threaten the moral authority of this organization and our integrity along with it.”Hours after the letter was sent, the center announced to the public that Mr. Dees had been fired.In a second letter, sent after Mr. Dees had been publicly let go, other employees asserted that the organization’s leadership had covered up allegations against Mr. Dees and been “complicit” in decades of discrimination and sexual misconduct.Former employees said that in recent years, Mr. Cohen, the president since 2003, ordered the removal of an exit-interview question about workplace culture after he had been told of at least one allegation against Mr. Dees.“I was told not to ask that question of employees any more,” said Sandra Orum, a former human resources specialist who said she was asked to resign last year for mismanaging exit-interview data.Mr. Dees said he has not been active in day-to-day operations at the center for some time, but as the co-founder of the organization and its star fund-raiser, his presence has loomed large.He opened the center in the aftermath of major civil rights legislation. In a lynching case during the 1980s, he won an award of $7 million in damages against the United Klans of America and its supporters, and soared to fame, becoming one of the nation’s most respected lawyers.A salesman so skilled that he was added to the Direct Marketing Association’s Hall of Fame, Mr. Dees was the center’s charismatic frontman and a draw for donors whom he regaled with accounts of courtroom battles in defense of justice and equality.But among employees, Mr. Dees has had a troubling reputation for a long time.Several women who have worked at the center said they were cautioned against being alone in a room with him. Others who worked there said they had witnessed inappropriate touching or heard him make lewd remarks.Jason Brooks, a paralegal in Montgomery in 2016, said he had personally heard Mr. Dees say “I like chocolate” in the presence of black women, which he took as a sexual innuendo. (Mr. Dees said he never made the comment.)There were also instances, Mr. Brooks said, when he witnessed Mr. Dees approach seated women from behind and put his hands on their shoulders.Although Mr. Dees denied that he was a sexual harasser, he acknowledged that he was the subject of a 2017 complaint after an encounter in Atlanta made an employee uncomfortable.According to Mr. Dees, he approached the woman and “touched my hand across the top of her shoulder” and introduced himself. He asked about the woman’s visible tattoos, he recalled, and said he had one himself, pointing to his leg.The woman complained to human resources, Mr. Dees said.In a subsequent email that was reviewed by The New York Times, Mr. Cohen told Mr. Dees that “no one has ever suggested that you harassed someone,” but that he had “no choice” but to investigate. Had there not been an inquiry, Mr. Cohen wrote in the email, the episode “would have metastasized.”Mr. Dees said he was counseled that his behavior had unnerved the woman but said there was no other discipline.The S.P.L.C. did not disclose the details of its inquiries into Mr. Dees’s behavior, and Mr. Dees said he had not even known of a second investigation that the center signaled had led to his firing this month.The center’s problems did not end there. Throughout its history, the organization’s leadership has mostly been white, and in 1994, The Montgomery Advertiser reported on complaints from black employees that they were “treated like second-class citizens.”The Advertiser’s reporting, which Mr. Dees bitterly disputes to this day, caused a stir but no enduring changes, employees said.“They weren’t even trying to be diverse in terms of reflecting the people who they served,” said Dana Vickers Shelley, a former staff member who was among the highest-ranking black employees at the center.When Ms. Shelley told Mr. Cohen of her resignation, she recalled that he asked what a subordinate, a black woman, intended to do. Ms. Shelley said she replied that she did not know.“His response to me that I will never forget was, ‘Well, the 13th Amendment says she can do whatever she wants,’” said Ms. Shelley, who left the organization in 2014. (The 13th Amendment abolished slavery.)Former employees said racially callous remarks at the center were not uncommon, and that professional voices of people of color were often sidelined, affecting the center’s work and priorities. Questions swirled over equal pay and advancement. There were sporadic pledges to try to address these inequities, but they persisted.Vanzetta McPherson, a former federal magistrate who sat on the S.P.L.C. board, said she did not remember “any concrete steps that the board took to address” workplace racial disparities.“It’s not unusual for whites who run institutions and organs aimed at improving the lot of nonwhites to assume that they know what’s best and to give more credence to their point of view about what’s best,” said Ms. McPherson, then speaking broadly about such groups.At the center, leadership seemed to show little interest in engaging with, or even acknowledging, the organization’s own internal biases, current and former employees said.Amir Whitaker is a black lawyer who worked at the center for three years and left in 2016. He said leaders once responded to racial bias complaints by hiring a speaker for a session on the issue.According to Mr. Whitaker’s recollection, toward the end of the session, Rhonda Brownstein, a white lawyer who resigned from a top post at the organization this month, asked, “What if people are calling you a racist or saying things are racism but they’re just wrong?”The question left Mr. Whitaker dismayed, he said, because it seemed to be a defensive denial of the S.P.L.C.’s internal problems with racism.In an email, Ms. Brownstein disputed Mr. Whitaker’s characterization of her question, calling it “inconsistent with a career of acting in a very different way.”Mr. Dees said he believes his ouster was the climax of a battle over whether he should retire from the center. He said Mr. Cohen had told him this month that he was on the verge of being fired, and he began to prepare a settlement, but was dismissed in a text message before the two sides could reach an agreement.In the message, which Mr. Dees showed to a reporter, Mr. Cohen cited Mr. Dees’s “conduct” and the “statements you’ve made in the presence of your co-workers.”The dismissal, it read, was “for the good of the center.”On Friday, after The Times asked the S.P.L.C. to respond to its findings, the center offered its fullest account yet of what led to Mr. Dees’s downfall, but it largely refused to address specific allegations or personnel matters.“We will not respond to individual allegations publicly,” said the center, which declined to make Mr. Cohen available for an interview.Within hours of the center disclosing the two investigations into Mr. Dees, Mr. Cohen told employees that he would step down. He said in an internal email, “Whatever problems exist at the S.P.L.C. happened on my watch, so I take responsibility for them.”Mr. Dees said he did not bear a grudge against the organization he helped power for decades, but that he was saddened that his critics “would go to extreme measures” to undermine his career. “I guess I’m a trial lawyer, and so things come and go,” Mr. Dees said. “When the facts are all said and done, my reputation is not going to be hurt.”The center’s board has hired Tina Tchen, Michelle Obama’s former chief of staff, to assess its workplace culture. In a statement, the board chairman, Bryan Fair, said that recent events had been “an eye-opening reminder that the walk toward justice must sometimes start at your own front door, and force you to look at your past so you can improve your future.”Audra D. S. Burch and Alan Blinder reported from Montgomery, Ala., and John Eligon from Kansas City, Mo. Reporting was contributed by Campbell Robertson from Pittsburgh, and Julia Jacobs, Christopher Mele, Timothy Williams and Karen Zraick from New York. Grace Ashford and Alain Delaquérière contributed research.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A new research paper tracked the political donations of thousands of C.E.O.s from 2000 through 2017. The results, Andrew writes in his latest column, reveal what top business leaders really think about politics.They’re usually Republican. Nearly 58 percent of C.E.O.s showed a preference for the G.O.P., with just 18 percent designated as Democrats. (For executives to be counted as either, two thirds of their donations had to go to candidates affiliated with one party.)About a quarter were considered neutral. The report doesn’t disclose who was in each category, but its authors told Andrew that Tim Cook of Apple was neutral, having donated to both Hillary Clinton and Paul Ryan over the years.The disparity was narrower in some sectors. Tech and internet companies had somewhat more Democratic-leaning C.E.O.s. And female leaders were nearly evenly split between the G.O.P., Democrats and neutral territory.But the Republicans are quieter. The study found that there was a statistically significant association between a company having a Republican C.E.O. and less disclosure of political contributions.Why it matters: “The opinions held by executives have always resonated beyond their own industries, but their importance is more pronounced today,” Andrew writes. “Mr. Trump, for example, has not hesitated to equate economic policy with foreign policy. It is, then, instructive to understand the political views of our business leaders.”The U.S. and China will embark on another round of high-level trade talks in a final attempt to hash out an agreement, according to the WSJ.• “U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin plan to fly to Beijing next week to meet with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He, Trump administration officials said.”• “The following week, a Chinese delegation led by Mr. Liu is expected to continue talks in Washington.”There are conflicting views on how far they’ve got: America seems upbeat. President Trump yesterday said that talks were “going very well,” and Myron Brilliant, executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said that “we’re in the endgame.” But China may be wary. “Some U.S. negotiators are concerned that China is pushing back against American demands in trade talks,” Bloomberg reports, citing unnamed sources. It may walk back some promises because they didn’t prompt assurances about American concessions.A deal could be ready by the end of April if the next talks go well, the WSJ estimates, about a month later than previously expected.Meanwhile, in Europe:  President Xi Jinping’s trip to Italy and France this week is drawing attention to Europe’s conflicted views on China.After years of criticism, Facebook said it would no longer permit advertisers in key categories to show their messages only to people of a certain race, gender or age group, Noam Scheiber and Mike Isaac of the NYT report.• Anyone advertising housing, jobs or credit would no longer have the option of explicitly aiming ads on the basis of those characteristics.• The new rules also cover advertising on Instagram and Messenger, which Facebook owns.• Facebook said it planned to carry out the changes by the end of the year.• The changes are part of a settlement with groups that have sued Facebook over these practices in recent years.The shift will annoy advertisers. Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s C.O.O., told the NYT that the changes could make advertising on Facebook less efficient for some customers, but that it was “a cost well worth bearing.”And it has limits. “I don’t think it solves the problem of the potential for biased serving of ads,” Pauline Kim, a professor of employment law at Washington University in St. Louis, told the NYT. She explained that Facebook’s algorithms could show any ad to a particular audience if that audience were determined to be likelier to click on it.More Facebook news: Representative David Cicilline, the head of the House antitrust subcommittee, explains why he is calling on the F.T.C. to investigate the company. And are we asking it the wrong questions in the wake of the Christchurch shooting?In the wake of two fatal crashes involving Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane, a new focus for investigations is how the F.A.A. certified the jet as safe, David Gelles and Tom Kaplan of the NYT report.• “The 737 Max was one of the first commercial jets approved under new rules, which delegated more authority to Boeing than had been the case when most previous planes were certified.”• “Top F.A.A. officials, who are briefed on significant safety issues, were not aware” of an automated piloting system suspected in the crashes, Mr. Gelles and Mr. Kaplan report, citing unnamed sources.• “The software did not elicit what are known as special conditions, usually applied to a novel feature that requires additional regulations before it can be certified as safe.” But other features, like non-rechargeable lithium batteries, received that designation.• Skepticism about the F.A.A.’s approval process existed before the crashes. “In 2012, an investigation by the Transportation Department’s Office of Inspector General found that F.A.A. managers had not always been supportive of efforts by agency employees to ‘hold Boeing accountable.’ ”• “The United States transportation secretary, Elaine L. Chao, on Tuesday called for her agency’s internal watchdog to open an inquiry into the process.”More aviation news: President Trump nominated Stephen Dickson, a former Delta Air Lines executive, to lead the F.A.A. And an off-duty pilot reportedly helped save a Lion Air 737 Max 8 flight in software-driven trouble just one day before the same jet crashed.The tech giant introduced a service yesterday that allows people to play high-definition games instantly over the internet. It’s hoping to lead a revolution in the $135 billion industry.Think of it as Netflix for video games. “The new service, called Stadia, will work for anyone with a fast internet connection and a computer, phone or tablet,” Daisuke Wakabayashi and Brian Chen of the NYT write. “Users pay a subscription to access a library of games that they can immediately play, as opposed to the traditional model of paying for a disc or waiting to download a game.”This isn’t the only game-streaming option. Sony offers one called PlayStation Now, and Microsoft plans to test something similar this year. The idea hasn’t yet hit the mainstream because streaming games is more technically demanding than streaming movies — and therefore prone to glitches.Plenty of unanswered questions hang over the announcement. What games will be available? How much will the service cost? And more fundamentally, what is Google’s business model? None of that is clear.But Google has not-so-secret weapons. “Using the global network of data centers that run its internet empire, it is set to unleash enough raw computing power to blow away the industry’s current way of doing things,” the FT writes, and it has “YouTube as a shop window.” Shares in Sony and Nintendo tumbled after the announcement.More Google news: In Europe, the company is changing how it displays some search results, and is giving Android users a choice of web browser to stave off complaints — and potential fines — from antitrust regulators.Just after midnight Eastern Time, Walt Disney closed its $71.3 billion takeover of 21st Century Fox. It has become, Brooks Barnes of the NYT writes, “an entertainment colossus the size of which the world has never seen.”Disney now owns an enviable array of assets. It already runs blockbuster properties like Marvel, Lucasfilm and ESPN, and a huge global theme-park operation. But buying most of Rupert Murdoch’s media empire brings:• The 20th Century Fox movie and TV studios, home to “X-Men” and “The Simpsons”• The Nat Geo and FX cable channels• Most of the Hulu streaming service• Star, the fast-growing Indian video providerThe consequences could be huge. Smaller studios may have to merge. Theater owners could lose out on box-office splits. And Disney’s efforts to dominate streaming could pose big challenges to Netflix, Amazon and Apple.But the stakes are high. “Mr. Iger and his lieutenants need to persuade investors to start viewing Disney more like a technology company, where near-term financial turbulence is often overlooked,” Mr. Barnes writes. And melding two corporate cultures isn’t easy.Anheuser-Busch InBev named Marty Barrington, the former C.E.O. of Altria, as its new chairman. Alex Behring, the head of the investment firm 3G Capital, stepped down from the board.Paul Ryan, the former House speaker, has joined the board of Fox.WarnerMedia named Toby Emmerich, Peter Roth and Kimberly Williams as interim co-heads of Warner Bros. while it seeks a replacement for Kevin Tsujihara.Kickstarter’s co-founder Perry Chen is stepping down as C.E.O.Barclays has hired Bob Peck, who was global head of internet investment banking at Credit Suisse, as a chairman of global internet banking.Deals• Lyft’s I.P.O. is reportedly oversubscribed, just two days after it started pitching to prospective investors. (Reuters)• Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany plans to stay out of merger talks between Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank. (NYT)• Apax and Warburg Pincus are leading a $3.3 billion takeover bid for Inmarsat, the satellite operator. (FT)• Glossier, the online cosmetics company, raised $100 million from investors led by Sequoia at a $1.2 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• Hyundai shareholders are expected to back the company in its fight against Elliott Management, which aims to shake up the carmaker’s board. (Nikkei)Politics and policy• Joe Biden reportedly told supporters that he plans to run for the Democratic presidential nomination. (WSJ)• Robert Mueller began investigating Michael Cohen’s emails in 2017, within months of starting as special counsel. (NYT)• How billions of dollars from military projects across the country could be used for President Trump’s border wall. (Axios)• The Trump administration has lost at least 63 court battles in the last two years, often for failing to provide clear explanations and allow public comment on decisions. (WaPo)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain will seek a short delay — reportedly up to three months — to Brexit. (FT)• The European Commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that European leaders may decide whether to grant a delay next week. The current Brexit deadline is next Friday. (Guardian)• Financial services companies may move an estimated £1 trillion, or $1.32 trillion, in financial assets out of Britain because of Brexit, according to the consulting firm EY. (FT)Tech• Apple is working with three nonprofits to develop anti-disinformation programs. (Axios)• Instagram introduced a feature that lets users buy clothes within its app. (NYT)• Myspace, the once-popular social network, says it may have permanently lost millions of photos, videos, and audio files from its peak period. (NYT)• An argument against breaking up Big Tech: Innovation could stagnate. (FT op-ed)• Airbnb hasn’t raised money in two years, so valuing it for an I.P.O. is tricky. (Recode)Best of the rest• Chinese companies are defaulting at “unprecedented” levels. (CNBC)• Economists around the world are trying to find an alternative to G.D.P. as a measure of prosperity. Here’s how that’s going. (Axios)• The S.E.C. plans to examine whether consolidation is reducing competition among U.S. asset managers. (FT)• The center fielder Mike Trout is reportedly near a $430 million deal with the L.A. Angels, which would be the biggest contract in North American sports history.. (ESPN)• Bill Gates has joined Jeff Bezos in the club of centibillionaires. They’re the only members. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday morning. ICYMI: Tiger Woods wasn’t the only winner from the Masters yesterday. So was Nike — which turned out this ad within minutes of his victory. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)Economists at Goldman Sachs wrote in a research note over the weekend that President Trump has a “narrow” advantage over his potential Democratic challenger next year, according to news reports.• Prediction markets have suggested that a Democratic challenger is likely to win.• But Bloomberg reported that the Goldman economists, Alec Phillips and Blake Taylor, argue that, “The advantage of first term incumbency and the relatively strong economic performance ahead of the presidential election suggest that President Trump is more likely to win a second term than the eventual Democratic candidate is to defeat him.”• And polls that include Howard Schultz as a potential third-party candidate show him reducing the Democratic vote share by around 2 percentage points more than the Republican vote share.• The Goldman economists acknowledged that Mr. Trump will face headwinds. Among them: “Groups that most strongly supported President Trump in 2016 made up a smaller share of total voters in 2018 than they did in 2014.”____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in New York, and Michael J. de la Merced and Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________Jay Powell, the Fed chairman, must oversee the central bank while President Trump needles him in public and the markets are volatile. Jim Tankersley and Neil Irwin of the NYT take a look at how he’s responding.• After a disastrous news conference in December, “Mr. Powell spent the holidays holed up at a family gathering in South Florida watching financial market swings, negative corporate news and shaky economic data — and plotted a way to correct the mistakes. He scratched out bullet points on a notepad and waited for an opportunity to publicly pivot.”• “Publicly and privately, Mr. Powell rejects any suggestion that Mr. Trump has influenced his, or the Fed’s, actions. Mr. Powell said this year that he would not resign if the president asked him to.”• “According to interviews with colleagues, friends and lawmakers, Mr. Powell has spent the past several months pushing the Fed toward more growth-oriented policies, not because Mr. Trump is demanding it, but because he believes economic data have given the Fed no other choice.”• “Among colleagues, Mr. Powell has emphasized the importance of not letting political considerations cause the central bank to err in either of two directions. One risk would be to bend toward the will of elected officials, which could put the economy’s long-term stability at risk.”• “He has also mentioned a more subtle risk: stubbornly insisting on doing the opposite of what a president seeks to prove independence, and in that way doing the wrong thing. That, too, could be viewed as political interference.”But worries remain among former Fed officials and central bankers around the world about Mr. Trump’s attempts at pressure. “I’m certainly worried about central bank independence in other countries, especially … in the most important jurisdiction in the world,” Mario Draghi of the European Central Bank said over the weekend.More: The Fed released transcripts of interviews with former U.S. presidents, detailing 50 years of the central bank’s history.Apple’s long conflict with the wireless chip maker Qualcomm is headed for a crucial court showdown this week, Don Clark of the NYT reports:• “Apple says Qualcomm should also repay $3.1 billion associated with patents whose rights Apple says are exhausted.”• “Qualcomm, in return, estimates that Apple’s partners — Foxconn, Pegatron, Wistron and Compal Electronics — owe more than $7.5 billion in unpaid royalties.”• “The action moves to a federal courtroom in San Diego, where jury selection is set to begin on Monday for a trial on an Apple lawsuit and Qualcomm’s counterclaims.”• “Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive; Philip Schiller, the company’s senior vice president of worldwide marketing; Qualcomm’s chief executive, Steven Mollenkopf; and its co-founder Irwin Jacobs could all be called to testify.”• The case “touches on two crucial issues for the tech industry: What is the proper balance between patent rights and competition? And what is the proper role of the government in regulating tech giants?”There was a large elephant in the room when President Trump announced a push to build out America’s next-generation wireless networks, Julian E. Barnes and David E. Sanger of the NYT report.The biggest auction to date of U.S. spectrum for 5G was announced by Mr. Trump on Friday. “Secure 5G networks will absolutely be a vital link to America’s prosperity and national security in the 21st century,” he said.Not mentioned: Huawei. “Mr. Trump has so far remained silent on whether the United States would issue an order essentially banning Chinese firms like Huawei from building those networks,” Mr. Barnes and Mr. Sanger report. The Trump administration has expressed fear that Huawei’s inexpensive network hardware is a national security threat and could be used by Beijing for spying.American attempts at a global ban on Huawei still aren’t working. Jochen Homann, the president of Germany’s telecommunications regulator, said that, in his agency’s view, “no equipment supplier, including Huawei, should, or may, be specifically excluded,” according to the FT. Politico reports that the British government is split over the same issue.But security remains a U.S. concern. America’s 5G networks must be “guarded from the enemy — and we do have enemies out there,” Mr. Trump said. U.S. officials believe it is “essential for countries to set up screening systems for foreign investments in the 5G era,” according to Nikkei Asian Review.Companies are expected to report shrinking profits for the first half of 2019. How big a problem is that?“Consensus forecasts now point to a 0.4 percent drop in earnings per share for the three months to June, compared to the same period last year, according to FactSet,” the FT reports. “That follows estimates of a 4.6 percent decline in the first quarter, which would round off two back-to-back quarters of falling profits to earn the label of an earnings recession.”“The market has completely ignored predictions of declining earnings growth in the first quarter,” Axios reports. “There’s been an acceptance that earnings growth was bound to decelerate this year after getting a boost from the tax cut in 2018. Profits aren’t falling because of declining sales, but margins are shrinking thanks to higher labor and material costs.”What happens next is unclear. If global growth and trade tensions continue to trouble investors, a sell-off could rear its head. But better-than-expected results from JPMorgan Chase and PNC Financial last week suggest that, if wider economic conditions don’t become any gloomier, things could keep humming along for a little while yet.The Writers Guild of America told its 13,000 members on Friday to fire their agents, throwing Hollywood into chaos over a mounting dispute over pay.The W.G.A. has two big issues with talent agencies like Endeavor and C.A.A.:• A practice known as “packaging,” where agencies put together clients as a package for a given project, taking a lump-sum fee from studios. The guild says that this shortchanges writers.• Agencies increasingly produce content themselves, which means that executives who should fight for their writers instead sit across the negotiating table from their clients.Top writers like Stephen King and Damon Lindelof have fired their agents, and posted the letters to social media.“Agencies have called the writers’ claims preposterous, arguing that their services are needed more than ever in a changing media environment in which Netflix, Amazon and Apple are on the rise,” John Koblin of the NYT reports.It’s an awkward time for a feud: The TV industry is heading into “staffing season,” where networks finalize their fall lineups and hire writers to work on shows.As you stand in line at the post office waiting to mail your tax return today, here is something to consider: Next year may be even tougher.You probably got a tax cut this year. Only about 40 percent of Americans believed that they benefited from the Trump tax cuts, a new poll by SurveyMonkey for the NYT finds. But data show that about 65 percent of Americans owe less under the new law.But act now for next year. Tara Siegel Bernard of the NYT notes that changes to the tax code mean that many taxpayers probably aren’t withholding enough from their paychecks — leading to a bigger bill next year:• “New guidance from the Internal Revenue Service prompted employers to adjust workers’ paychecks last March in an attempt to match up what they would owe under the new tax plan.”• “And in some cases — if taxpayers didn’t update the relevant withholding forms — they ended up owing money, even if their total tax liability dropped.”Foxconn’s founder and chairman, Terry Gou, said that he planned to step down in the next several months.Facebook plans to appoint Peggy Alford, a PayPal executive, as its first African-American board member. Two current directors, Reed Hasting and Erskine Bowles, will step down.Caesars Entertainment reportedly plans to hire Anthony Rodio, the chief executive of Affinity Gaming, as its new C.E.O.Deals• Bristol-Myers Squibb shareholders approved the company’s $74 billion acquisition of Celgene. (Bloomberg)• Analysts applauded Chevron’s $33 billion deal for Anadarko as “something of a steal,” but investors sent Chevron’s shares down 6 percent on Friday. (Bloomberg)• Purdue Pharma reportedly tried to buy Reckitt Benckiser’s opioid addiction treatment business. (FT)• Publicis agreed to buy Alliance Data’s Epsilon marketing services unit for $4.4 billion. (WSJ)• European regulators reportedly want Deutsche Bank to scale back its investment bank, regardless of any deal with Commerzbank. (FT)Politics and policy• Senator Kamala Harris released 15 years’ worth of her tax returns. Related: An argument for why everyone’s tax returns should be public. (CNBC, NYT Op-Ed)• Gov. Gavin Newsom of California urged the state’s legislature to protect utilities like PG&E from the cost of wildfires. (NYT)• The White House is reportedly considering further restrictions on immigration for students and investors. (WSJ)• President Trump raised $30 million for his re-election campaign in the first quarter, far outstripping Democratic rivals. (NYT)• Here’s how Mr. Trump’s team plans to tackle the release of Robert Mueller’s report, despite not knowing what the full document says. (Axios, NYT)Boeing• American and Southwest extended flight cancellations into August as the Boeing 737 Max jetliners remain grounded. (WSJ)• Concerns about Boeing’s anti-stall software are roiling industries focused on autonomous machines. (FT)Brexit• The British financial sector seems to have failed in its Brexit lobbying campaign. (FT)• The departure from the E.U. could make it harder for the Bank of England to find its next governor. (Reuters)• British companies are hoarding cash over fears of an economic downturn. (Reuters)Trade• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that he believed the U.S. and China were nearing the final stage of trade negotiations. (NYT)• In the talks, U.S. negotiators have reportedly backed away from demands that China curb its industrial subsidies. (Reuters)• How President Trump is undercutting his own trade deals. (NYT)Tech• China is using A.I. to profile members of a largely Muslim minority group. (NYT)• Citi Bike was forced to pull electric cycles off the streets after complaints about the brakes, another black eye for its parent company, Lyft. (Business Insider)• Google’s huge stash of location data about users is being used by investigators to find suspects and witnesses near crimes — but it sometimes snares the innocent. (NYT)• Google is disbanding a second A.I. ethics panel, this one based in Britain and charged with reviewing its work in health care. (WSJ)• Do Alphabet’s smart-city plans for Toronto face a backlash similar to that against Amazon’s HQ2 plans in New York? (Business Insider)• Jack Ma called a 72-hour workweek a “huge blessing.” (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Germany is under pressure from the I.M.F. to stimulate economic growth. (WSJ)• The Indian airline Jet Airways is on the brink of shutting down. (NYT)• Rite Aid will stop selling e-cigarettes and vaping products. (NYT)• A 10-day trading break in Japan for national holidays is spooking global markets. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Guns Down America, a gun-control advocacy group, has graded 15 banks based on their support for the gun industry, Tiffany Hsu of the NYT reports. Most received dismal appraisals.• “Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.”• The group used a 100-point scale that weighed factors like “a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers” and “discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.”• Citi got an 84. JPMorgan got a 48. BB&T, the lowest-ranking bank on the list, got a 20, in part for loans and financing that it arranged for gun makers like Smith & Wesson.• “We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Igor Volsky, the group’s executive director, told Ms. Hsu. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”• Ms. Hsu writes that “several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.”Carlos Ghosn was arrested for a fourth time today, as prosecutors hit him with new charges of using company funds for personal ends. The former Nissan chairman claims that it’s part of an effort to silence him.This time, he was accused of using a Nissan subsidiary in Oman to send millions of dollars of payments to one of the carmaker’s foreign business partners, which then passed it on to a company Mr. Ghosn controlled.Mr. Ghosn did this three times between 2015 and 2018, resulting in $5 million in losses to Nissan, according to prosecutors.He may be held in solitary confinement for at least 20 days, the FT reports, citing unnamed people close to his family. It adds that it is highly unusual in the Japanese legal system for someone released on bail to be rearrested.Mr. Ghosn blamed “some individuals at Nissan” for his “outrageous and arbitrary arrest,” saying they were attempting “to silence me by misleading the prosecutors.” He had tweeted yesterday that he planned to hold a news conference next Thursday to tell “the truth about what’s going on.”That tweet and arrest raise an interesting question: Did he violate the terms of his bail, which restrict his internet access?Cybersecurity researchers have found data about hundreds of millions of Facebook users stored publicly by a third party on Amazon’s cloud servers, according to Bloomberg.• “In one instance, Mexico City-based digital platform Cultura Colectiva openly stored 540 million records on Facebook users, including identification numbers, comments, reactions and account names. The records were accessible and downloadable for anyone who could find them online.”• “In the Cultura Colectiva dataset, which totaled 146 gigabytes, it was difficult for researchers to know how many unique Facebook users were affected.”• The researchers also “ had trouble working to get the database closed.”• “A Facebook spokesperson said that the company’s policies prohibit storing Facebook information in a public database. Once it was alerted to the issue, Facebook worked with Amazon to take down the databases.”It has been over a year since the Cambridge Analytica scandal showed how widely Facebook had shared user data with third-party app developers. The social network began to audit that data-sharing last year, but the research report shows the struggle the company still faces.More: Facebook is paying the British newspaper The Telegraph to publish sponsored articles that play down concerns about its practices. New research suggests that its algorithms target ads by race and gender even when advertisers request a broad audience. And have Mark Zuckerberg’s tech regulation proposals been treated unfairly?President Trump is expected to meet China’s trade envoy, Liu He, in Washington later today. That could be a sign of progress on some of the sticking points surrounding a potential deal, according to Bob Davis of the WSJ.The U.S. and China have been at odds over tariffs imposed on $250 billion of Chinese goods. Washington sees them as a way to ensure that China sticks to the deal; Beijing wants them removed as soon as it’s signed. China has few other hard demands, and U.S. businesses have urged the Trump administration to remove the tariffs.There could be workarounds. The U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, has “been using the tariff issue to push for another U.S. priority — that China agree to a no-retaliation clause in a trade deal,” Mr. Davis reports. The plan, which could let the U.S. unilaterally impose levies on Chinese goods if China does not comply, could “help him persuade Mr. Trump to approve the agreement and lift a substantial amount of tariffs.”“Mr. Trump is looking to announce on Thursday the date of a summit with Mr. Xi,” an unnamed Trump administration official told Mr. Davis. “That’s a big signal the two sides are on the cusp of a deal, trade experts say, and a resolution of the tariff issue.”But “the situation is fluid, and plans could change,” the official added.Senator Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate’s tax-writing committee, has an idea that could radically change how America taxes the 1 percent, according to the WSJ.Mr. Wyden proposed taxing gains in asset values annually, at the same rate as other income. Gains are currently taxed only when investors sell an asset, and at a top rate of 23.8 percent, rather than the 37 percent for ordinary income.The senator said his plan would “eliminate serious loopholes that allow some to pay a lower rate than wage earners, to delay their taxes indefinitely, and in some cases, to avoid paying tax at all.”Challenges to the plan include how to value gains in complex assets, how to handle declines in value, and how to apply it to illiquid holdings like real estate.The proposal “is a breathtakingly terrible idea,” Sen. Pat Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, told the WSJ.President Trump’s aversion to regulation and his go-it-alone nationalism are wavering in the face of technology questions, Steve Lohr of the NYT reports.• “In September, the Trump administration abandoned its hands-off approach and began working closely with the 36-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to create international guidelines for the design and use of artificial intelligence.”• “The administration has also started to discuss a new law to protect privacy in the digital age, seeking consensus domestically and common ground internationally. It has fielded more than 200 public-comment filings from advocacy groups, corporations and individuals.”The administration has “moved from indifference to engagement,” Julie Brill, a former commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission who now helps oversee regulatory affairs for Microsoft, told Mr. Lohr.“The shift is a pragmatic recognition that regulations that will affect the nation’s tech industry and its citizens are coming, and that if federal officials want a say in them, they must participate,” Mr. Lohr writes.The race to give citizens superfast wireless data networks reached a conclusion yesterday. But there’s no clear consensus on which city is the world’s first to enjoy 5G, the WSJ reports.• “Verizon launched 5G wireless service in parts of Chicago and Minneapolis on Wednesday, a week ahead of its planned start date, while carriers in South Korea deployed their service in the Seoul metropolitan area the same day.”• “It is unclear which country struck first. South Korea’s large carriers, which had eyed a Friday start, hustled to switch on 5G services at 11 p.m. local time. Both SK Telecom Co. and KT Corp., the two largest operators, claimed to have the world’s first 5G smartphone subscribers. Verizon said its customers in those two cities were the first.”The development of 5G has become politically charged. America and China, in particular, see it as a means of asserting technological prowess. And the battle has entangled the Chinese telecom company Huawei, with America and others declaring its 5G hardware a risk to national security.Expect to hear more about the race.Condé Nast has hired Roger Lynch, the former chief executive of Pandora, as its new C.E.O.PG&E confirmed that it has appointed 10 new directors, including Nora Mead Brownell, a former commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulation Commission, and Jeffrey Bleich, a partner at the law firm Dentons.Zeina Bain, one of the Carlyle Group’s most senior female deal makers, has left for a competitor, ICG.Apple promoted its M.&A. chief, Adrian Perica, by having him report directly to Tim Cook instead of the company’s C.F.O.Deals• The radio giant iHeartMedia filed to go public yesterday, though it hasn’t decided between an I.P.O. and a Spotify-like direct share listing. (NYT)• Nearly 20 percent of Lyft’s shares have been lent to short-sellers as part of bets they’ll fall in price. It’s now the most expensive American stock to short. (DealBook, Business Insider)• SoftBank is reportedly in talks to raise $15 billion more for its Vision Fund. (Bloomberg)• The consulting firm Accenture agreed to buy Droga5, one of the big independent advertising agencies. (NYT)Politics and policy• The arrest of a Chinese national carrying malware at Mar-a-Lago shows how hard it is for a presidential home to double as a moneymaking business. (WaPo)• The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee formally requested six years of President Trump’s tax returns, while the House Intelligence Committee has asked for documents related to his inauguration. (NYT)• Senate Republicans resorted to the “nuclear option” of limiting debate on presidential nominations for federal courts and administrative posts to speed up confirmation of Mr. Trump’s picks. (NYT)• Some of Robert Mueller’s investigators have told associates that Attorney General William Barr’s summary of their findings underplayed troubling conclusions about President Trump. (NYT)Boeing• Ethiopian investigators said that the pilots of the Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed followed proper guidance. (NYT)• Some pilots said that Boeing should have provided more instructions for disabling the anti-stall software suspected in the two crashes. (WSJ)• The family of Ralph Nader’s niece, who was killed in the Ethiopian Airlines crash, plans to sue Boeing. (NYT)• Boeing hasn’t halted 737 Max production despite the global grounding of the Max 8 model. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May and the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, have begun talks to devise a Brexit deal that could garner cross-party support. (NYT)• Parliament passed a bill to force Mrs. May to seek a further delay to the process and avoid a no-deal Brexit. (FT)Tech• Tesla delivered 63,000 vehicles in the first quarter — fewer than expected and down 31 percent from the fourth quarter of 2018. (NYT)• A.I. experts have called on Amazon to stop selling its facial-recognition technology to law enforcement because it’s biased against women and people of color. (NYT)• Australia passed a law threatening huge fines for social media companies that fail to take down “abhorrent violent material” rapidly. (NYT)• MIT is cutting ties with the Chinese tech giants Huawei and ZTE over security risks. (FT)• Google will now require suppliers to provide their workers with benefits, including parental leave and minimum wages. (Wired)Best of the rest• Has the yield curve predicted the next recession — or are its warnings being overplayed? (FT)• Six women have sued Jones Day, one of the world’s largest law firms, for pregnancy and gender discrimination. (NYT)• A report by BlackRock says that investors underestimate extreme weather risks. (FT)• China’s stimulus plan might be working. (FT)• Much of the U.S. is experiencing a Japan-style decline in working-age residents. (Upshot)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" With “The Artist’s Way,” Julia Cameron invented the way people renovate the creative soul.Julia Cameron, making change at 70.CreditCreditRamsay de Give for The New York TimesSupported byBy Penelope GreenSANTA FE, N.M. — On any given day, someone somewhere is likely leading an Artist’s Way group, gamely knocking back the exercises of “The Artist’s Way” book, the quasi-spiritual manual for “creative recovery,” as its author Julia Cameron puts it, that has been a lodestar to blocked writers and other artistic hopefuls for more than a quarter of a century. There have been Artist’s Way clusters in the Australian outback and the Panamanian jungle; in Brazil, Russia, the United Kingdom and Japan; and also, as a cursory scan of Artist’s Way Meetups reveals, in Des Moines and Toronto. It has been taught in prisons and sober communities, at spiritual retreats and New Age centers, from Esalen to Sedona, from the Omega Institute to the Open Center, where Ms. Cameron will appear in late March, as she does most years. Adherents of “The Artist’s Way” include the authors Patricia Cornwell and Sarah Ban Breathnach. Pete Townshend, Alicia Keys and Helmut Newton have all noted its influence on their work.So has Tim Ferriss, the hyperactive productivity guru behind “The Four Hour Workweek,” though to save time he didn’t actually read the book, “which was recommended to me by many megaselling authors,” he writes. He just did the “Morning Pages,” one of the book’s central exercises. It requires you write three pages, by hand, first thing in the morning, about whatever comes to mind. (Fortunes would seem to have been made on the journals printed to support this effort.) The book’s other main dictum is the “Artist’s Date” — two hours of alone time each week to be spent at a gallery, say, or any place where a new experience might be possible. Elizabeth Gilbert, who has “done” the book three times, said there would be no “Eat, Pray, Love,” without “The Artist’s Way.” Without it, there might be no adult coloring books, no journaling fever. “Creativity” would not have its own publishing niche or have become a ubiquitous buzzword — the “fat-free” of the self-help world — and business pundits would not deploy it as a specious organizing principle.The book’s enduring success — over 4 million copies have been sold since its publication in 1992 — have made its author, a shy Midwesterner who had a bit of early fame in the 1970s for practicing lively New Journalism at the Washington Post and Rolling Stone, among other publications, and for being married, briefly, to Martin Scorsese, with whom she has a daughter, Domenica — an unlikely celebrity. With its gentle affirmations, inspirational quotes, fill-in-the-blank lists and tasks — write yourself a thank-you letter, describe yourself at 80, for example — “The Artist’s Way” proposes an egalitarian view of creativity: Everyone’s got it.The book promises to free up that inner artist in 12 weeks. It’s a template that would seem to reflect the practices of 12-step programs, particularly its invocations to a higher power. But according to Ms. Cameron, who has been sober since she was 29, “12 weeks is how long it takes for people to cook.”Now 70, she lives in a spare adobe house in Santa Fe, overlooking an acre of scrub and the Sangre de Cristo mountain range. She moved a few years ago from Manhattan, following an exercise from her book to list 25 things you love. As she recalled, “I wrote juniper, sage brush, chili, mountains and sky and I said, ‘This is not the Chrysler Building.’” On a recent snowy afternoon, Ms. Cameron, who has enormous blue eyes and a nimbus of blonde hair, admitted to the jitters before this interview. “I asked three friends to pray for me,” she said. “I also wrote a note to myself to be funny.” In the early 1970s, Ms. Cameron, who is the second oldest of seven children and grew up just north of Chicago, was making $67 a week working in the mail room of the Washington Post. At the same time, she was writing deft lifestyle pieces for the paper — like an East Coast Eve Babitz. “With a byline, no one knows you’re just a gofer,” she said. In her reporting, Ms. Cameron observed an epidemic of green nail polish and other “Cabaret”-inspired behaviors in Beltway bars, and slyly reviewed a new party drug, methaqualone. She was also, by her own admission, a blackout drunk. “I thought drinking was something you did and your friends told you about it later,” she said. “In retrospect, in cozy retrospect, I was in trouble from my first drink.”She met Mr. Scorsese on assignment for Oui magazine and fell hard for him. She did a bit of script-doctoring on “Taxi Driver,” and followed the director to Los Angeles. “I got pregnant on our wedding night,” she said. “Like a good Catholic girl.” When Mr. Scorsese took up with Liza Minnelli while all three were working on “New York, New York,” the marriage was done. (She recently made a painting depicting herself as a white horse and Mr. Scorsese as a lily. “I wanted to make a picture about me and Marty,” she said. “He was magical-seeming to me and when I look at it I think, ‘Oh, she’s fascinated, but she doesn’t understand.’”)In her memoir, “Floor Sample,” published in 2006, Ms. Cameron recounts the brutality of Hollywood, of her life there as a screenwriter and a drunk. Pauline Kael, she writes, described her as a “pornographic Victorian valentine, like a young Angela Lansbury.” Don’t marry her for tax reasons, Ms. Kael warns Mr. Scorsese. Andy Warhol, who escorts her to the premiere of “New York, New York,” inscribes her into his diary as a “lush.” A cocaine dealer soothes her — “You have a tiny little wife’s habit” — and a doctor shoos her away from his hospital when she asks for help, telling her she’s no alcoholic, just a “sensitive young woman.” She goes into labor in full makeup and a Chinese dressing gown, vowing to be “no trouble.”“I think it’s fair to say that drinking and drugs stopped looking like a path to success,” she said. “So I luckily stopped. I had a couple of sober friends and they said, ‘Try and let the higher power write through you.’ And I said, What if he doesn’t want to?’ They said, ‘Just try it.’”So she did. She wrote novels and screenplays. She wrote poems and musicals. She wasn’t always well-reviewed, but she took the knocks with typical grit, and she schooled others to do so as well. “I have unblocked poets, lawyers and painters,” she said. She taught her tools in living rooms and classrooms — “if someone was dumb enough to lend us one,” she said — and back in New York, at the Feminist Art Institute. Over the years, she refined her tools, typed them up, and sold Xeroxed copies in local bookstores for $20. It was her second husband, Mark Bryan, a writer, who needled her into making the pages into a proper book. The first printing was about 9,000 copies, said Joel Fotinos, formerly the publisher at Tarcher/Penguin, which published the book in 1992. There was concern that it wouldn’t sell. “Part of the reason,” Mr. Fotinos said, “was that this was a book that wasn’t like anything else. We didn’t know where to put it on the shelves — did it go in religion or self-help? Eventually there was a category called ‘creativity,’ and ‘The Artist’s Way’ launched it.” Now an editorial director at St. Martin’s Press, Mr. Fotinos said he is deluged with pitches from authors claiming they’ve written “the new Artist’s Way.” “But for Julia, creativity was a tool for survival,” he said. “It was literally her medicine and that’s why the book is so authentic, and resonates with so many people.” “I am my tool kits,” Ms. Cameron said. And, indeed, “The Artist’s Way” is stuffed with tools: worksheets to be filled with thoughts about money, childhood games, old hurts; wish lists and exercises, many of which seem exhaustive and exhausting — “Write down any resistance, angers and fears,” e.g. — and others that are more practical: “Take a 20 minutes walk,” “Mend any mending” and “repot any pinched and languishing plants.” It anticipates the work of the indefatigable Gretchen Rubin, the happiness maven, if Ms. Rubin were a bit kinder but less Type-A.“When I teach, it’s like watching the lights come on,” said Ms. Cameron. “My students don’t get lectured to. I think they feel safe. Rather than try and fix themselves, they learn to accept themselves. I think my work makes people autonomous. I feel like people fall in love with themselves.” Anne Lamott, the inspirational writer and novelist, said that when she was teaching writing full-time, her own students swore by “The Artist’s Way.” “That exercise — three pages of automatic writing — was a sacrament for people,” Ms. Lamott wrote in a recent email. “They could plug into something bigger than the rat exercise wheel of self-loathing and grandiosity that every writer experiences: ‘This could very easily end up being an Oprah Book,’ or ‘Who do I think I’m fooling? I’m a subhuman blowhard.’”“She’s given you an assignment that is doable, and I think it’s kind of a cognitive centering device. Like scribbly meditation,” Ms. Lamott wrote. “It’s sort of like how manicurists put smooth pebbles in the warm soaking water, so your fingers have something to do, and you don’t climb the walls.”Ms. Cameron continues to write her Morning Pages every day, even though she continues, as she said, to be grouchy upon awakening. She eats oatmeal at a local cafe and walks Lily, an eager white Westie. She reads no newspapers, or social media (perhaps the most grueling tenet of “The Artist’s Way” is a week of “reading deprivation”), though an assistant runs a Twitter and Instagram account on her behalf. She writes for hours, mostly musicals, collaborating with her daughter, a film director, and others. Ms. Cameron may be a veteran of the modern self-care movement but her life has not been all moonbeams and rainbows, and it shows. She was candid in conversation, if not quite at ease. “So I haven’t proven myself to be hilarious,” she said with a flash of dry humor, adding that even after so many years, she still gets stage-fright before beginning a workshop.She has written about her own internal critic, imagining a gay British interior designer she calls Nigel. “And nothing is ever good enough for Nigel,” she said. But she soldiers on. She will tell you that she has good boundaries. But like many successful women, she brushes off her achievements, attributing her unlooked-for wins to luck.“If you have to learn how to do a movie, you might learn from Martin Scorsese. If you have to learn about entrepreneurship, you might learn from Mark” — her second husband. “So I’m very lucky,” she said. “If I have a hard time blowing my own horn, I’ve been attracted to people who blew it for me.”Penelope Green is a reporter for Styles. She has been a reporter for the Home section, editor of Styles of The Times — an early iteration of Styles — and a story editor at the Times magazine.  @greenpnyt • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Negotiations between Washington and Beijing seemed to be in a precarious place on Tuesday, after the FT reported that the Trump administration had canceled meetings with Chinese vice ministers.The officials had offered to come to Washington to prepare for meetings scheduled later this month between China’s trade czar, Liu He, and the U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, the FT said.Larry Kudlow, the head of the National Economic Council, denied the report to CNBC. He added that negotiations would only be successful if the Chinese honored their commitments:“Promises are great but enforcement is what we want — things like deadlines and timetables and full coverage of the various structural issues. Will this all be solved at the end of the month? I don’t know. I wouldn’t dare to predict.”China may agree to buy up to seven million tons of American wheat. But Chinese officials are reportedly chafing at U.S. requests for regular reviews of changes to their trade policies. And two influential American business groups still see reason to be unhappy, saying China is engaged in “a deep, concerted and continuing effort” to establish dominance in technologies such as robotics and electric vehicles.Beijing is also trying to play down Belt and Road, its vast infrastructure initiative spanning Asia, Europe and Africa: Senior government officials have avoided the topic at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, the NYT reports.The effects of trade tensions continue to spread. The stock market started the year strong but sputtered on Tuesday. Japan’s exports last month sank the most in more than two years. Chinese finance officials promised more stimulus. Experts are predicting that “the good times are over” for American companies reliant on Chinese consumers.But not everyone is complaining: Lobbyists have enjoyed a surge of business from companies and trade groups hoping to influence the Trump administration’s tariff decisions. Indonesia’s doing all right, too: Its industry minister says it’s exporting more steel to the U.S. and also attracting Chinese textile and footwear companies.Other Chinese news: The founder of a Nanjing-based meat supplier, one of several Chinese executives at Hong Kong-listed companies who have mysteriously disappeared in recent years, returned to his family. Several Chinese companies are circling Japan’s largest operator of oyster restaurants.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in Davos, Switzerland; Stephen Grocer in New York; and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The Senate descended from the spectator stands to plan two competing votes to fund the government on Thursday. One involves President Trump’s latest proposal: $5.7 billion for a border wall, now accompanied by temporary protections for certain immigrants. The other, from the Democrats, would open the government until Feb. 8.But neither is expected to draw the 60 votes needed to advance. This means that the Trump administration is likely to continue as a one-ring circus, focused on the wall to the exclusion of other presidential duties.Here are ways the shutdown is still straining the system:• Reserve security workers are being flown into airports, because as many as one in 10 transportation security officers are failing to show up for work.• Delays in reports about home sales, construction, trade and manufacturing threaten to create a data vacuum, just as the economy may be slowing down.• SNAP food stamps help feed some 40 million Americans. The Agriculture Department is still considering how to keep the program running after February.• The U.S. court system will need to close after Feb. 1 if the stalemate continues.And a sidelight on the wall proposal: Details disclosed at the trial of the drug lord known as El Chapo suggests it wouldn’t have inconvenienced him very much.Analysts and bankers at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, offered a glass-half-full attitude toward the global economy, saying it was weakening but not entering a recession. “We’re slowing, but we’re still growing,” said Philipp Hildebrand, vice chairman of the investment manager BlackRock.But behind the brave face, concerns of political paralysis, frayed trading partnerships and working-class resentment created a nervous atmosphere.Another theme was the growing discomfort with corporate influence over society. Nowhere was this tension greater than in the conversation around Big Tech. Optimism in official sessions appeared to be out of touch with the public’s concern about the technology’s disruptive effects on privacy and politics.Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, made a surprise appearance and was seen with Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan of Armenia. But talk was dominated by who wasn’t there, most notably President Trump.Instead, President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil has been present to take up the populist mantle, the NYT’s Mark Landler writes, promising to root out corruption, roll back regulations and make his country a good place to do business:Mr. Bolsonaro’s keynote address set the tone for a Davos gathering shorn of its usual retinue of American and European leaders, wrestling with political forces, from Latin America to Europe, that are starkly at odds with this conference’s ethos of global cooperation and a liberal world order.Dyson, the British appliances company founded by a vocal supporter of Brexit, swears that its decision to move to Singapore is not a reaction to Britain’s planned departure from the E.U.But with one proposed exit plan summarily rejected and the prospect of a delayed divorce, the temptation to jump ship to calmer, more business-friendly waters is growing.Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, has asked for a parliamentary vote on whether to hold a second referendum on Brexit.Brexit could hit European consumers hard, Kasper Rorsted, the chief executive of the German sportswear maker Adidas, told CNBC. And the E.U. says trade rules would require a “hard border” between Ireland and British-controlled Northern Ireland if Britain leaves without a deal.Germany and France are still keen to show their commitment to a united Europe: Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Emmanuel Macron met on Tuesday to renew a 1963 treaty on the subject.Desktop Metal announced today that it had closed a $160 million funding round to expand the production of its office-friendly metal 3D-printing technology.The funding round was led by Koch Disruptive Technologies, the investing and innovation arm of Koch Industries, and brings Desktop Metal’s total investment to $438 million. In a news release, the company declared this to be the moment when 3D printing begins to disrupt traditional metal manufacturing.“We are at a critical juncture in the advancement of metal 3D printing and additive manufacturing,” said Ric Fulop, a co-founder and the chief executive of Desktop Metal, which is based in Burlington, Mass.The production system is the fastest metal printing press for mass production, the company said, and will begin shipping commercially in the first quarter of 2019.Justin Gmelich, chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs and one of the most senior executives in the bank’s fixed income business, is retiring. (FT)Bunge, the world’s largest oilseed processor, appointed Gregory Heckman acting chief executive, replacing Soren Schroder, who agreed to leave in December. (FT)Deals• Two activist hedge funds are calling on eBay to consider spinning off or selling StubHub and a classified-ad businesses. (WSJ)• Arconic said it would not sell itself to the private equity firm Apollo Global Management. (WSJ)• In its most significant move into streaming, the cable giant Viacom is paying $340 million for PlutoTV, an advertising-based service. (NYT)• Shares of PG&E surged after it said it had secured $5.5 billion in financing as it prepares to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. (Reuters)• BAE Systems won a $474 million U.S. defense contract, the Pentagon said. (Reuters)Tech • The former Soviet republic of Georgia has been offering tax breaks, land deals and cheap energy to lure cryptocurrency businesses. (NYT)• Tencent, the Chinese tech company, lost a third of its value last year. (FT)• IBM said its revenue fell 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter, better than analysts expected but still a sign of challenges ahead. (WSJ)• Japan Display, a supplier for Apple’s iPhone XR, is seeking a bailout from an investor group from China and Taiwan. (WSJ)• Silicon Valley start-ups and their investors fear the days of unchecked growth may be over. (WSJ)• Google and Facebook spent record amounts on lobbying governments last year. (Reuters)Politics and policy • President Trump has turned out to be the one thing that Mitch McConnell, the Senate Republican leader, can’t control. (NYT)• Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, said he expected further progress in North Korea denuclearization talks, but acknowledged “an awful lot of work to do.” (Reuters)• The Supreme Court permitted the Trump administration to bar most transgender people from serving in the military while courts review the policy. (NYT)Best of the rest • 23andMe, the DNA testing company, said it had received regulatory approval to offer a test for a hereditary colorectal cancer syndrome. (Bloomberg)• How companies game their ratings on Glassdoor, a site that lets people review their employers. (WSJ)• Carl Rogberg, a former senior director of the supermarket chain Tesco, was acquitted today of fraud and false accounting charges. (Reuters)• Walgreens will pay $269.2 million to settle accusations that it improperly billed Medicare, Medicaid and other federal programs for more than a decade. (Reuters)• McKinsey has been repeatedly accused of misconduct in bankruptcy cases, most recently in a case that could cost it tens of millions of dollars in returned fees. (NYT)• Home sales fell last month to their lowest level since 2015, pressured by stock market volatility, the government shutdown and higher interest rates. (WSJ)• BlackRock is planning a money-market fund that will invest primarily in debt from environmentally conscious issuers. (Reuters)• A spate of quarterly earnings this week from industrial and technology companies could disrupt the relative calm in the stock market. (WSJ)• Construction is set to start on a $500 billion futuristic city in Saudi Arabia’s Neom Bay, financed by the government, its sovereign wealth fund and local and international investors. (Bloomberg)• Production at Subaru’s only car factory in Japan could be shut down for nearly two weeks to fix a suspected defect in a single part. (Reuters)• Eric Salama, the chief executive of the marketing firm Kantar, is recovering after being stabbed in an attempted carjacking in London. (Bloomberg)• The cost of insulin for treating type 1 diabetes nearly doubled over five years in the U.S. (Reuters)• The Labor Department accused Oracle of wage discrimination by funneling women and minorities into lower-paying roles and setting their initial pay based on prior salary. (CNBC)• The Federal Reserve is beginning to examine how Deutsche Bank handled billions of dollars in suspect transactions from Denmark’s leading lender. (Bloomberg)• To survive a pilot shortage, airlines are doubling starting salaries and recruiting from military helicopter crews. (Reuters)• The pharmaceutical industry’s main trade group spent a record $27.5 million on lobbying last year. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Thursday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBefore 1919, the music was considered more novelty than art. Then a military band changed everything.By David SagerMr. Sager is a research assistant at the Library of Congress and a jazz historian.The Armistice to end World War I brought elation and a sense of relief to millions of Americans, but also a jolt of reality. The country had only been in the conflict for 19 months, but it had already adjusted to the rhythms and strictures of a society on a total-war footing. When it ended so abruptly, the result was a sudden permissiveness in the culture, a weakening of social rules and an opening for new ideas, creating a fertile atmosphere for America’s new, unruly musical child: jazz. What was jazz? It had no real definition; it referred to many things. The year 1919 is usually not considered an important marker on the jazz timeline, but that year subtle yet compelling forces took hold that would turn this invasive novelty into something with far more clarity and promise as an art form. It was the year jazz came into its own.Feb. 17, 1919, was a cold, overcast New York day that threatened snow. Tens of thousands of people had come to the streets of Manhattan for a victory parade. At the corner of Fifth Ave. 60th Street, a crowd packed the sidewalks and clustered onto a grandstand, vying for a glimpse of the returning heroes parading northward. Along the route marched the 369th Infantry, a highly decorated all-black regiment that had just returned from a year in France. The Germans, whom they flushed from their trenches, called them “blutdürstige schwarze Männer,” or “bloodthirsty black men” — or more respectfully, “Hellfighters.” The French government gave the unit the Croix de Guerre for its bravery.On cue, the cheering crowd fell into an abrupt hush, as line upon line of soldiers appeared, proceeding in immaculate precision. “For a moment there was almost complete silence, as the throngs of men and women gazed upon the dark-skinned warriors who had beaten the best regiments of veterans the enemy could send them,” wrote The New York Tribune. Nearly all accounts of the parade singled out the 369th’s band, under the direction of Lt. James Reese Europe, an immensely successful and well-known African-American musician. The press consistently referred to them as a “jazz band,” whose “jazz music” had become the sensation of France. Even Gen. Henri Gouraud, a staid and dignified French commander, was enthralled, and made his headquarters wherever the band was stationed. Lieutenant Europe was already known as the “Jazz King.”Such praise marked the first time anything associated with jazz had received such glowing approval. In 1919, jazz, or “jass,” as some still called it, was a peculiar word with musical and sexual connotations. It could be noun, verb or adjective, indicating pep, liveliness and noise. Jazz was the new counterculture dance music replacing ragtime — but more dangerous, disorderly and discordant, consisting of random, wrong-sounding musical obstreperousness and percussive turmoil. The music had been considered a scourge on polite society, particularly by whites, even if many of them had no idea what the word meant. Now, thousands — both white and black — cheered Europe’s “jazz” band.They kept the “jazz music” under wraps at first. Marching along, Europe kept his men reined in, playing dignified military music, matching the solemnity and discipline of the moment. But as they passed 60th Street, where the crowd became more and more densely populated with African-Americans, the band let loose with “That Moaning Trombone” and other syncopated numbers. Verve and enthusiasm stood in bold relief. James Reese Europe was born in 1881 in Mobile, Ala., and raised in Washington, D.C., where he studied violin, piano and composition. In 1903, he relocated to New York, seeking work as a musical director and composer. There he associated with the black musical cognoscenti of Manhattan, including Bert Williams, J. Rosamond Johnson and Bob Cole. He became New York society’s favorite band leader, charming the likes of the Vanderbilts, and was musical director for Vernon and Irene Castle, a popular pair of white dancers. Along the way he mentored a string of future musical stars, like Noble Sissle and Eubie Blake.Although historians often associate Europe with ragtime and jazz, his focus was on neither. He wanted to create music that he believed reflected the artistic temperament and souls of African-Americans, whatever style it took, and to use it to promote the validity and viability of Negro musicians.In 1910 he formed the Clef Club, a union for New York’s black musicians, along with the enormous Clef Club Symphony Orchestra, which emphasized instruments that he felt were commonly used by black musicians: banjo, mandolin, bandora and harp guitar. In interviews, Europe avoided the word “ragtime,” simply calling it “Negro music.” The orchestra performed lavish concerts — several at Carnegie Hall — featuring works by black composers like Will Marion Cook, William H. Tyers and Europe himself. It played marches, concert pieces, tangos and waltzes, with a sprinkling of ragtime.Europe’s reputation as a purveyor of ragtime and “proto jazz” is based on recordings made in 1913 and 1914. Of these, “Castle House Rag,” a Europe composition, captures our imagination today, offering a rare glimpse into black dance music, partly read and partly played by ear. Exciting and edgy, it has hints of “Shortenin’ Bread” and what might be described as “country ragtime.” Few who heard Europe’s music were acquainted with the dance music then brewing in New Orleans, which some regarded as “ragtime played by ear.” Because it went largely unrecorded during the 1910s, it would be years before the rest of the country could hear the rhythmic drive and hot quality of its pioneers, like King Oliver, Freddie Keppard and Jelly Roll Morton. One exception was the Original Dixieland Jazz Band, who made a recording in 1917 that was listened to from California to New York. Many musicians tried to copy their seemingly discordant approach, and failed. Most couldn’t hear, beneath that mélange, the band’s harmonic and rhythmic order, spontaneous sounding counterpoint and interlocking parts. Musicians copied the effects — the musical veneer. Capturing musical essence was a far more complex task than aping the obvious.And yet 1919 was the year when that began to change. In March, the Original Dixieland Jazz Band sailed for England, to tour British theaters. While there, they rerecorded a number of their old hits, along with two waltzes, unlikely choices for a New Orleans jazz band. Still, those recordings, “Alice Blue Gown” and “I’m Forever Blowing Bubbles,” have the propulsion and lilt that characterized New Orleans. More and more people, far outside New Orleans, were suddenly hearing, and enjoying, jazz.As they did, New York bands began to get the swing of the music. In March 1919, a group from Coney Island called the Original Memphis Five emerged with a streamlined version of the Original Dixieland Jazz Band’s style. They made hundreds of recordings between 1921 and 1929. Nineteen-nineteen was also the year that a young cornetist named Louis Armstrong, who had been electrifying patrons of New Orleans saloons and honky-tonks with his distinctive sound, began to set his sights beyond his hometown. Armstrong possessed a rare gift for fusing disparate types of music that moved him — he had command over the passion of blues, excitement of ragtime, and the poignancy of operatic and classical melodies. His was the unnamed music of New Orleans: organic, confident and sincere. Playing on Mississippi riverboats, his horn was heard for the first time outside of New Orleans. Inevitably, young musicians like the trombonist Jack Teagarden and the cornetist Bix Beiderbecke heard Armstrong; within a few years, both of these young men would emerge as jazz originals in their own right.Armstrong had received much of his early experience working in the band led by trombonist Edward Ory, known as Kid. Ory's contribution to early jazz was in creating one of the most fundamental voices of the jazz band: a style known as “tailgate trombone,” which became the model for most that followed. Ory left New Orleans in August 1919 for California. He soon settled in Oakland, leading a fine jazz band at the Creole Café. In the summer of 1922, Ory’s band would become the first black New Orleans jazz band to make recordings.Armstrong’s mentor, Joe Oliver, moved to Chicago in 1917. By 1919 he was one of the busiest musicians in town, giving Chicago a taste of the Crescent City’s hot music. In 1922 he sent for Armstrong to join his Creole Jazz Band as the second cornetist. The 1923 King Oliver recordings would spread New Orleans music — some called it “jazz” — throughout the land. On the very day of the 369th’s parade, 2,900 miles to the west, a struggling dance orchestra leader named Paul Whiteman was recovering from a nervous breakdown. A violinist formerly with the San Francisco Symphony, Whiteman had become fascinated with the sensuous, unpolished sounds he heard from musicians in Barbary Coast saloons. He attempted to notate this strange music, orchestrate it and normalize it. Hiring the best “jazzers” in town, Whiteman formed a dance band to play at the Fairmont Hotel. Taxed by overworked and worry, he collapsed, and soon left music, and San Francisco, behind.But he didn’t stay gone. Whiteman moved east, in 1920, and drew national attention when he signed a contract with the Victor Talking Machine Company. Striving to “make a lady” of jazz led to his fabulous 1924 concert “An Experiment in Modern Music,” which premiered Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue.” Whiteman became known as the “King of Jazz,” a moniker which — while he never took it literally — served him well. He went on to hire Frank Trumbauer, Beiderbecke and others, a dream team of young jazz musicians. By the mid-1920s, jazz was firmly in place as the reigning American popular music style.All that was in the future as Europe and the 369th wrapped up their parade through Manhattan. Soon afterward they were mustered out of the service. For most, there was no question what they would do next: Reforming the band as civilians, they set out to tour the East Coast and Midwest. According to a review of their show in Philadelphia, The Evening Bulletin wrote: “Many ragtime, jazz time and popular air tunes were played with a swing, a swerve and a tempo that lifted the soul as well as the feet of the listener and carried him away to the Land of Shuffling Feet.”Though they were praised for their jazz, Europe and his band ranged widely. He typically programmed light classical overtures, specialties like “Evolution of Dixie,” some ragtime, and medleys of syncopated hits under the rubric “A Potpourri of Jazz.” A recording of a medley they often played on the road, “Plantation Echoes,” contains not a speck of jazz, or ragtime, by anyone’s definition. But the crowds demanded jazz, and Europe gave it to them — not only on the stage, but in interviews, where he tried to explain this new form. As he told The Newark Evening Ledger, “Lots of people think jazz is easy. It’s as hard as anything. The French bandmasters thought we had trick instruments. They’d ask to examine our instruments and then cry in surprise ‘Meme que les autres’ — ‘The same as the others.’ You see we get those special effects with a roll of the tongue and blowing the instrument about twice as hard as usual.”Europe’s comments reflected commonly held beliefs about jazz: It was about effects, such as distorting the embouchure to produce fluttering effects. Europe was a master tactician, and provided good copy.The band’s recording of “Memphis Blues” illustrates their approach to jazz. The final minute displays many of the effects Europe described: crying clarinets, flutter-tongued cornets, trombone glissandos and a “shave and a haircut” ending. There is one exception: a surprise solo “break” by a trombonist who tosses off an insouciant, swinging phrase.That break, only two measures long, speaks volumes: a rarity on such an early recording, signifying the exciting nature of jazz as it was still maturing.On May 9, 1919, the band arrived in Boston, to perform at Mechanic’s Hall. Europe, suffering from a cold and exhaustion, courageously pushed himself through the concert’s first half. During intermission, an altercation erupted when a disgruntled musician entered Europe’s dressing room and attacked him with a penknife. The injury, which seemed at first superficial, was anything but. Europe died a few hours later.  In a flash, James Reese Europe was gone, the band broke up, and postwar excitement and acceptance for jazz were temporarily forgotten. Nevertheless, Europe’s final testament had a lasting legacy. During that final tour, a wide range of Americans had begun to realize that jazz was something of which they could be proud. Photos from the parade, with jazz-playing musicians surrounded by returning soldiers, made it clear that this was a homegrown, even patriotic, art form. The old notion about “jazzing” suddenly seemed quaint. “Jazz” had become a noun.Europe’s dream, to see African-Americans accepted as serious and respected performers, lived on through his two closest associates, Noble Sissle and Eubie Blake. Their 1921 Broadway hit “Shuffle Along” was in a sense, a tribute to their mentor and friend.Looking at 1919 from both sides of a timeline clarifies how pivotal this year was for jazz. On one side there was the diligent, focused work of James Reese Europe, which brought dignity to both African-American musicians and jazz. On the other, Paul Whiteman continued his work legitimizing jazz in the public’s mind. In the middle were the pioneers of the art: Louis Armstrong, his mentors and disciples.Encompassing a span of a decade in a single year, 1919 was the fulcrum of momentous musical activity when jazz — in many forms and many definitions — was nurtured, whether by Europe, Whiteman or the growing number of jazz musicians who understood it.David Sager is a research assistant in the Recorded Sound Research Center at the Library of Congress and a Grammy-nominated jazz historian and jazz trombonist.Further Reading (and listening): Louis Armstrong, “Louis Armstrong in his own Words,” ed. by Thomas Brothers; Reid Badger, “A Life in Ragtime: A Biography of James Reese Europe;” John McCusker, “Creole Trombone: Kid Ory and the Early Years of Jazz”; Tim Brooks, “Lost Sounds: Blacks and the Birth of the Recording Industry, 1890-1919;” H.O. Brunn, “The Story of the Original Dixieland Jazz Band;” “James Reese Europe with his 369th U.S. Infantry “Hellfighters” Band: The Complete Recordings,” Memphis Archive, MA7020 (compact disc); “Original Dixieland Jazz Band: The First Jazz Recordings, 1917-192,” Timeless CBC1-009 (compact disc); Don Rayno, “Paul Whiteman: Pioneer in American Music;” David Sager, “King Oliver Off the Record: The Complete 1923 Jazz Band Recordings,” Off the Record — ARCH-OTR — MM6-C2 (liner notes for compact disc); “The Product of Our Souls: the Sound and Sway of James Reese Europe’s Society Orchestra,” Archeophone Records, ARCH 6010 (compact disc).The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byExplore the cities, countries, regions and states in Travel’s “52 Places to Go in 2019” through these books. By The EditorsIn an interview earlier this year, The Times’s new 52 places traveler, Sebastian Modak, questioned whether he would have to give up his “physical books and buy a Kindle” as he traveled to 52 places in 2019. His response: “Probably.” He also wondered whether he would “even have time to read books.” His answer: “Probably not.”But for those of you planning to follow in his footsteps to one or two of those places, time may be more in your favor. So here are some reading suggestions — fiction and nonfiction, essays, poems — that may help you to better explore those cities, countries, regions and states. Let us know what you think. Feeling inspired? Send a photo of the book you’re reading on your travels to books@nytimes.com. No. 1 Puerto RicoSantiago’s memoir of growing up in Puerto Rico before moving to Brooklyn with her family and eventually ending up at Harvard is a staple on middle school, high school and college reading lists. Readers will admire Santiago’s “vivid, poignant writing.”No. 2 Hampi, IndiaThis historical book of fiction involves the present-day discovery of a 16th-century courtier’s diary in the Indian west coast town of Honnavar.No. 3 Santa Barbara, Calif.Millar’s psychological thriller is centered around the untimely death of the young daughter of wealthy Californian landowners. No. 4 Panama“Trust David McCullough to come up with a chunk of history so full of giant‐sized characters and so rich in political skulduggery, financial scheming technological innovation and medical pioneering that by the end of his telling of it he has us convinced that the digging of the canal was symbolic of the entire Western era between the Franco‐Prussian War and the outbreak of World War I.”Read Our ReviewNo. 5 Munich, Germany“Harris’s meticulously researched and expertly paced thriller, ‘Munich,’ recounts the days leading up to the ill-fated agreement,” or the Munich accord, which symbolized false hopes and Nazi duplicity in the countdown to World War II. Read Our ReviewNo. 6 Eilat, Israel“Skillfully translated by Sondra Silverston, ‘Waking Lions’ is a sophisticated and darkly ambitious novel, revealing an aspect of Israeli life rarely seen in its literature.”Read Our ReviewNo. 7 Setouchi Islands, Japan“‘Pachinko’ chronicles four generations of an ethnic Korean family, first in Japanese-occupied Korea in the early 20th century, then in Japan itself from the years before World War II to the late 1980s.Read Our ReviewNo. 8 Aalborg, DenmarkThis is the first in the Danish author’s Department Q series featuring Copenhagen detective Carl Morck from the cold cases division. Read Our Review of the Latest Book in the SeriesNo. 9 The Azores, Portugal“Saudade is a Portuguese word with no direct translation that conveys a deep longing for something that perhaps never was and yet may never come again. It suggests a melancholy satisfaction.” Marcum captures the elusive nature of this word that “is central to understanding the Portuguese spirit, and more specifically the Azorean one.”Read Our ReviewNo. 10 Ontario Ice Caves, CanadaIn telling a grim tale of how climate change, overpopulation and invasive species destabilizes a sensitive ecosystem, Egan “nimbly splices together history, science, reporting and personal experiences into a taut and cautiously hopeful narrative.”Read Our ReviewNo. 11 Zadar and nearby islands, Croatia“With fables and allegories, as well as events borrowed from the headlines, Obreht illustrates the complexities of Balkan history, unearthing patterns of suspicion, superstition and everyday violence that pervade the region even in times of peace.”Read Our ReviewNo. 12 Williamsburg, Va.“This book is aimed at a mass audience, driven by anecdote and statistic, memoir and photograph, with all the giants of American history in their respective places.”Read Our ReviewNo. 13 Las Vegas“Vegas” is “a semi-autobiographical book about a sojourn in that city” and the types of people who live there. It is “a fine, wry, perceptive, graceful book that does as much for the dark side of the American fun house as Hunter Thompson's ‘Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas’ did for the manic side.” Read Our ReviewNo. 14 Salvador, BrazilThe Brazilian writer Amado loved Salvador. His “exuberant spirit, aesthetic and characters seem to permeate the streets of the place he described both as ‘the most mysterious and beautiful of the world’s cities.’” For visitors, he “went so far as to suggest an itinerary in his novel, ‘Tereza Batista.’” He wanted tourists to see every element of the city from its beaches and churches to its festivals and whorehouses. No. 15 Danang, VietnamThe narrator of this debut novel is a Vietnamese live-in cook working for Alice B. Toklas and Gertrude Stein in Paris. “He concocts both Vietnamese delicacies and American apple pie, evoking memories for the household with the intensity of Proust's madeleine and adding an exotic spice for poignancy.”Read Our ReviewNo. 16 Costalegre, MexicoEsquivel, a Mexican novelist, uses magical realism to tell the story of the youngest daughter of the De La Garza family in turn-of-the-century Mexico, who expresses her hopes and sadness through her cooking. No. 17 Paparoa Track, New ZealandThis first volume of the autobiography of the novelist and poet Janet Frame focuses on her early life in New Zealand. “It is a wistful tale, honestly and believably told, of the puzzling encounters of childhood, the recognitions, the gain and the loss.” Read Our ReviewNo. 18 Puglia, ItalyGray’s 1986 autobiography, “Honey From a Weed,” turned her into a cult figure for her “artful compilation of memories, recipes and traveler’s tales” in Italy. In his biography of Gray, Federman has “created a fully formed character … honoring not only her brilliance but the rough edges that made her human.”Read Our ReviewNo. 19 Tatra Mountains, Slovakia“In ‘Zoli,’ a novel about the Gypsies of Eastern Europe, McCann imagines a deeper, darker watchword for this immemorially wandering and persecuted people: to be understood, even in part, is to be violated and destroyed.”Read Our ReviewNo. 20 Calgary, Canada“Medicine River,"" which chronicles the lives of a group of contemporary First Nations in Western Canada, is set in a small town in Alberta that borders a Blackfoot reserve. “This most satisfying novel ends as it should, not in a clash of cymbals, but with the brushes laid quietly against the drums for a beat or so after the music ends.”Read Our ReviewNo. 21 Olkhon Island, Lake Baikal, RussiaIn this book, Thomson “investigates the biochemistry behind the myth” that Lake Baikal “water purifies itself.” And in so doing, Thomson has created a “superb paean to a unique and bizarre ecosystem.” Read Our ReviewNo. 22 Huntsville, Ala.Although NASA engineer Hickam’s “Rocket Boys” is mostly a memoir about his childhood in West Virginia, the book does a terrific job of telling the story of a group of men who dreamed of launching rockets into outer space. As such it’s a great book to read when you are in or traveling to the Rocket City. Read Our ReviewNo. 23 Falkland IslandsStevens accepts a travel fellowship to the Falkland Islands, where she writes her memoir, tracing “the fits and starts of the writing process and shares some hard-won insight,” including this: “‘Surrounded by people, it is easy to feel alone,’ she writes. ‘Surrounded by penguins, less so.’”Read Our ReviewNo. 24 Aberdeen, ScotlandSet in Aberdeen, “Black and Blue” is the eighth book in Ian Rankin’s Inspector Rebus series. The novel “was a turning point in his career, selling four times as many copies as the previous Rebuses.” Rankin is “one of Scotland's most popular authors, along with Irvine Walsh, Iain Banks and, of course, J.K. Rowling.”No. 25 Golfo Paradiso, ItalyThis 1922 novel is the story of four women from England, who are all strangers to one another. They come together for a monthlong vacation in April at a villa on Italy’s Mediterranean coast near Portofino. No. 26 Dessau, GermanyAlthough the Bauhaus, a German school of art, “lasted only from 1919 to 1933, and was forced to move from historic Weimar to industrial Dessau and then Berlin, always facing opposition, it produced worldwide changes in the arts and crafts it addressed.” The section on Walter Gropius, the founder of Bauhaus, is especially colorful. Read Our Review No. 27 TunisThis Highsmith novel, which some would say is her best, is about an American writer who becomes an “unwitting accomplice to a murder in Tunisia. The author’s ‘dry simplicity,’ said one reviewer in 1969, ‘conceals a labyrinthine complexity it is a challenge and a pleasure to untangle.’”No. 28 GambiaThis coming-of-age debut novel is the coming-of-age story of an 18-year-old Gambian woman debating her choice of suitors and what path her life will take depending on who she chooses.No. 29 Northern Rivers, New South Wales, Australia“This unflinching novel — loosely based on Grenville’s family history — explores modern Australia’s origins through the tale of William Thornhill, a Thames boatman and petty thief who is banished with his wife to New South Wales in 1806.”No. 30 Frisian Islands (Netherlands, Germany, Denmark)Childers’s “The Riddle of the Sands,” which was published in 1903, deals with the discovery of a planned secret German naval invasion of Britain. It is a classic early example of the espionage novel, and it takes place in the North Frisian Islands. No. 31 New York City“The Invisible Man” was published in 1952. The narrator is an unnamed African-American living in New York City in the 1930s. In the novel, Ellison grapples with man’s search for identity and place in society. A review in The Times called Ellison “an author who uses words with great skill, who writes with poetic intensity and immense narrative drive.”Read Our ReviewNo. 32, Chongli, China“China in Ten Words” is a collection of essays in which Yu Hua “depicts a morally compromised nation, plagued by escalating unemployment, class polarization and endemic corruption and waste. At the extremes, peasants traverse the land selling their blood to the highest bidder while multimillionaires build mansions that are replicas of the White House.”Read our reviewNo. 33 Orcas Island, Wash.Guterson's “finely wrought and flawlessly written first novel"" looks at World War II’s “terrible toll on the human spirit” and the racial intolerance of Japanese-Americans that was “present even before the war.” The novel revolves around a murder trial on a fictional island in Puget Sound in 1954. Read Our ReviewNo. 34 Uzbekistan“Murder in Samarkand” is Murray’s personal account as the British envoy in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, from 2002 to 2004. “In his memoir, he incorporates political argument as well as personal reflection” in a place where he “found himself caught between geopolitical considerations — the strategic partnership between Uzbekistan and the United States and Britain — and his concern for the people living under a despotic leader.” Read Our ReviewNo. 35 Vestlandet, NorwayThis debut novel is set in Norway’s Lofoten Islands. “The constant sunlight of midsummer feeds the book’s dreamy, surreal quality.” Dinerstein’s “narrative style is also dreamlike; many things happen, but little feels at stake.”Read Our ReviewNo. 36 Lyon, FranceThis “story of innocents abroad is a familiar one, but the tale bears repeating when the teller is as engaging, funny and richly appreciative of ‘serious stomachs’ as Mr. Mayle is.” Yes, it’s Provence not Lyon, but this book is perfect vacation reading, especially when you are exploring the French countryside.Read Our ReviewNo. 37 Doha, QatarThe author’s American mother is from Washington State and her father is a Bedouin Qatari. What’s so striking about this memoir is the many forms of conflict that Al-Maria writes about. It’s not just the “tension between modernity and tradition in the Gulf States,” it’s also “her childhood shuttling between the ‘soggy blades of grass’ of the Pacific Northwest and ‘the pockmarked moonscape of construction pits and cranes’ in the Qatari capital of Doha.”Read Our ReviewNo. 38 Batumi, GeorgiaSteavenson, a journalist, moves to post-Soviet Georgia and writes about her journey in a fun and caring manner. Whether it’s love, drinking, water shortages, refugees or fixed elections, it’s all there, beautifully and bizarrely told. No. 39 Marseille, FranceIf you’re in Marseilles, the perfect books to read are Izzo’s noir crime novels, which are all set in that French city. And in “Total Chaos,” this seaport town’s “geography seems to dictate the narrative.” Read Our ReviewNo. 40 WyomingIn this collection, Proulx tells the stories of people who “lead hard lives, working livestock, raising sheep, riding the rodeo circuit, selling trinkets to tourists, trying to wrest a living from the gritty hardpan of their failing farms. No one is successful here except the bar owners, the dude ranchers and the cattle traders, and they are always just offstage, counting their money.”Read Our ReviewNo. 41 Los Angeles“‘Slouching Towards Bethlehem’ brings together some of the finest magazine pieces published by anyone in this country in recent years.” These “melancholy essays about the way things are, mainly in California … are also finely written,” and proof that “Didion is an intelligent woman, with an intelligent heart.”Read Our ReviewNo. 42 Dakar, SenegalThe poet and essayist Léopold Sédar Senghor was the president of Senegal from 1960 to 1981. He was a co-founder of the Negritude movement, which “refers to an African essence, replete with philosophical and psychological consequences,” and is considered one of the most significant figures in African literature. No. 43 Perth, AustraliaIn “Cloudstreet” — which is set in postwar, working-class Perth — Winton “captures social and commercial aspects of Western Australia's recent past: shrimping, phosphate mining, kangaroo hunting in the wheat fields.”Read Our ReviewNo. 44 Hong KongMo’s grand-scale historical novel set in 19th-century Hong Kong “fascinates much as a great, highly illustrated encyclopedia will fascinate, with odd bits of information competing with long, sustained passages of action, description and pure narrative.”Read Our ReviewNo. 45 Iran“The Story of a Childhood” is the first volume of Satrapi’s “Persepolis,” which combines political history and graphic memoir, portraying Iran’s “20th-century upheavals through the story of one family.” The protagonist, Marji, is growing up “in a fashionably radical household in Tehran,” and she is “bent on prying from her evasive elders if not truth, at least a credible explanation of the travails they are living through.Read Our ReviewNo. 46 HoustonMcMurtry is considered by many readers to be “the most important Texas writer.” His “Terms of Endearment,” which features an overbearing widowed mother and her rebellious daughter as they face a variety of challenges, is set in Houston and considered the third volume in his Houston trilogy. No. 47 Columbus, OhioAbdurraqib is a poet, essayist and cultural critic from Columbus, Ohio. This book is a collection of his essays, which weave his autobiography into his thoughts on race, religion, identity and music.No. 48 Plodiv, BulgariaKostova’s “The Historian” is a “canny high-low pop-cultural blend” with its “legend of Dracula as a central theme (think Anne Rice fans) while also being “an inquiry into the vagaries of historical research (think Umberto Eco fans).”Read Our ReviewNo. 49 Vevey, Switzerland“Hotel du Lac,” which chronicles a single woman's vacation at a Swiss resort, is generally viewed as Brookner’s “most absorbing novel; the heroine is more philosophical from the outset, more self-reliant, more conscious that a solitary life is not, after all, an unmitigated tragedy.”Read Our ReviewNo. 50 Cádiz, SpainPerez-Reverte’s genre-bending literary novel is filled with history, adventure, suspense and romance and set in Cádiz in 1811 when the Spanish port city was surrounded by Napoleon’s army. No. 51 The Elqui Valley, Chile“The Savage Detectives” by Bolaño, a Chilean author, tells the story of the search for a 1920s Mexican poet, Cesárea Tinajero, by two 1970s poets, the Chilean Arturo Bolano and Ulises Lima of Mexico. The novel is “both melancholy and fortifying; and it is both narrowly about poetry and broadly about the difficulty of sustaining the hopes of youth.” Read Our ReviewNo. 52 The Islands of TahitiMaugham’s “The Moon and Sixpence” is a first-person narrative based on the life of Paul Gauguin. In the 1919 novel, an English banker, mirroring Gauguin, abandons his family and moves to Paris to become an artist and eventually immigrates to Tahiti. It’s a fun book to read when you are looking to get away from it all. Advertisement"
" 

      By JASON BAILEY

UPDATED April 16, 2019

We’ve plucked out 100 of the absolute best movies included with a Prime subscription right now. Take a look.
Sign up for our Watching Newsletter to get recommendations on the best films and TV shows to stream and watch, delivered to your inbox. As Netflix pours more of its resources into original content, Amazon Prime Video is picking up the slack, adding new movies for its subscribers each month. Its catalog has grown so impressive, in fact, that it’s a bit overwhelming — and at the same time, movies that are included with a Prime subscription regularly change status, becoming available only for rental or purchase. It’s a lot to sift through, so we’ve plucked out 100 of the absolute best movies included with a Prime subscription right now, to be updated as new information is made available.Our list of the best movies on Netflix is here.Two “lifers,” locked up together indefinitely in Shawshank prison, form a bond that transcends decades of their lives and, ultimately, their own incarcerations in this heart-wrenching adaptation of an atypically non-genre novella by Stephen King. Tim Robbins is in fine form as Andy Dufresne, convicted of a crime he didn’t commit and dedicated to proving it. As Red, the guy who can get anything for anybody, Morgan Freeman (who also narrates) crafts the quintessential Morgan Freeman performance: folksy and friendly, but with a layer of steel underneath. Our critic called it “a slow, gentle story of camaraderie and growth.”
Watch on Amazon
Ethan Hawke creates one of his finest performances as Father Toller, a country priest with a small parish in upstate New York, in this critically acclaimed drama. Paul Schrader, the writer and director, continues to explore the themes of earlier works like “Taxi Driver” and “Hardcore” while simultaneously seizing on the austerity of Toller’s world: The film is quiet and contemplative, which makes its apocalyptic, shattering conclusion all the more impactful. Our critic called it “rigorously conceived and meticulously executed.” (Also recommended: the small but powerful indie drama “We Need to Talk About Kevin.”)
Watch on Amazon
George Clooney turns in one of his most nuanced performances in this sharp and affecting comedy-drama from the writer and director Jason Reitman (“Juno”). Clooney uses his movie-star good looks and charisma in service of the supremely confident Ryan Bingham, a man who specializes in being the corporate bad guy (he is brought in to handle the layoffs), but whose confidence slowly deteriorates; Anna Kendrick is pitch-perfect as the young woman who is seeking to streamline their profession, and consequently put him out of a job. Our Manohla Dargis praised this “laugh-infused stealth tragedy.”
Watch on Amazon
Two jazz musicians (Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis) disguise themselves in drag to escape some gangsters, but one of them falls for a seductive singer (Marilyn Monroe, in one of her best performances), while the other becomes the object of a millionaire’s desire. Both uproariously funny and tight as a drum, “Some Like It Hot” works through every complication of its farcical set-up, landing not only on a picture-perfect conclusion but also on one of the best closing lines in all of cinema. Our critic dubbed it “a rare, rib-tickling lampoon.” (Wilder and Lemmon re-teamed the next year for the marvelous “The Apartment” and again in 1966 for “The Fortune Cookie”; both are also on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
The three-decade journey of the psychedelic rock band the Grateful Dead is brought to vivid life in this six-part, four-hour documentary from director Amir Bar-Lev (“The Tillman Story”). And while the archival materials and rarities will please Deadheads, the film has even more to offer to casual admirers and even newcomers, who will come away with a better understanding of what made this band (and the misfits they attracted) so special. Our critic called it “ambitiously assembled and elegantly directed.” (Music-minded documentary fans will also want to check out the peerless concert docs “Stop Making Sense” and “The Last Waltz.”)
Watch on Amazon
Jodie Foster won her first Academy Award for her forceful turn as a rape victim in this brutal but essential drama. It’s a hard film to watch, particularly in its relentless dramatizations of the assault, and yet it is not without hope or catharsis, and it prompts fascinating (and still very poignant) questions about responsibility, harassment and victim blaming. Foster’s performance is still a stunner: Detailed and grounded, her character refuses to pander for sympathy or “likability.” Our critic deemed it “a consistently engrossing melodrama.”
Watch on Amazon
The director Frank Capra and the actor Jimmy Stewart took a marvelously simple premise — a suicidal man is given the opportunity to see what his world would have been like without him — and turned it into a holiday perennial. But “It’s a Wonderful Life” is too rich and complex to brand with a label as simple as “Christmas movie”; it is ultimately a story about overcoming darkness and finding light around you, a tricky transition achieved primarily through the peerless work of Stewart as a good man with big dreams who can’t walk away from the place where he’s needed most. Our critic dubbed it a “quaint and engaging modern parable.”
Watch on Amazon
Harrison Ford stars as John Book, a Philadelphia police detective investigating a murder whose only witness is a young Amish boy, so he follows the boy and his mother (Kelly McGillis) back to their insular community to protect them. The director Peter Weir (“Picnic at Hanging Rock,” “Dead Poets Society”) deftly intermingles this suspenseful mystery story with an affecting human drama, in which Book finds himself drawn not only to the small Amish town but also to the young mother — which raises the stakes considerably. (For another look at off-the-grid living, try “Leave No Trace” on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
Roman Polanski’s brings a 1970s sensibility to a classic 1940s private eye movie, and explores the tension between those two eras — between what we were traditionally shown and the sex, drugs and moral rot that production codes kept off-screen. Jack Nicholson crafts one of his finest performances as J.J. Gittes, a laid-back Los Angeles gumshoe who gets in way over his head, while Faye Dunaway takes the conventions of the slinky femme fatale and turns them into a portrait of genuine pain and abuse. A.O. Scott says the film “pushes beyond the conventions of the genre.” (The stark, disturbing Dunaway vehicle “Eyes of Laura Mars” is also currently streaming on Prime, as is another terrific ‘70s action flick, “The Taking of Pelham 123.”)
Watch on Amazon
Nearly 30 years before Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez’s “Grindhouse,” the director Stanley Donen and the screenwriter Larry Gelbart perfected the fake double-feature with this affectionate send-up of classic Hollywood. “Movie Movie” gives us two films for the price of one, a black-and-white boxing melodrama and a color musical spectacular (with a fake trailer for a World War II flying-ace picture between them), with shared casts including George C. Scott, Trish Van Devere, Red Buttons and Eli Wallach. Our critic called it “Hollywood flimflamming at its elegant best.”
Watch on Amazon
In profiling leaders of the Indonesian death squads of the mid-1960s, documentarian Joshua Oppenheimer invites them to stage elaborate and surreal recreations of their crimes in the cinematic style of their choosing (musical, gangster, Western, etc.). In doing so, Oppenheimer directs his subjects to craft an upsetting but telling statement on self-deception and the toxicity of power, and on the lies we tell ourselves in order to sleep at night. Our critic deemed it “dogged, inventive, profoundly upsetting and dismayingly funny.”
Watch on Amazon
Greta Gerwig made her solo feature directorial debut with this funny and piercing coming-of-age story, set in her hometown, Sacramento, Calif. Saoirse Ronan dazzles in the titular role as a quietly rebellious high-school senior whose quests for love and popularity bring her long-simmering resentments toward her mother (Laurie Metcalf, magnificent) to a boil. Parent-child conflicts are nothing new in teen stories, but Gerwig’s perceptive screenplay slashes through the familiar types and tropes, daring to create characters that are complicated and flawed, yet deeply sympathetic. A.O. Scott praised the film’s “freshness and surprise.” (We also recommend “The Squid and the Whale,” another witty coming-of-age comedy/drama, from Gerwig’s frequent collaborator Noah Baumbach.)
Watch on Amazon
When people say, “They don’t make’ em like they used to,” this is the kind of movie they’re usually talking about: a sparkling literary adaptation, handsomely mounted and elegantly acted by an all-star cast (including Sean Connery, Lauren Bacall, John Gielgud, Anthony Perkins, Vanessa Redgrave and Ingrid Bergman, who won an Oscar for her role). Albert Finney stars as Agatha Christie’s Hercule Poirot, who is called upon to figure out which passenger on the title train killed a man whom, it seems, they all had a motive to murder. Our critic called it “superb fun.” (Lumet’s first film, “12 Angry Men,” is also on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
The director of “Tangerine,” Sean Baker, returns with another warm and funny portrait of life on the fringes, melding a cast of nonactors and newcomers with an Oscar-nominated Willem Dafoe as the manager of a cheap Orlando motel populated by confused tourists and barely-managing families. The script (by Baker and Chris Bergoch) captures, with startling verisimilitude, the anxieties of living paycheck-to-paycheck (particularly when the next paycheck’s very existence is uncertain) while also borrowing the devil-may-care playfulness of the children at the story’s center. Our critic called it “risky and revelatory.” (Fans of unpredictable indie fare may also enjoy “You Were Never Really Here.”)
Watch on Amazon
The 2017 Academy Award winner for best picture, this triptych about a young, gay African-American man’s coming of age in Miami is a quietly revelatory piece of work, exploring and challenging modern perceptions of masculinity, family, power and love. Director Barry Jenkins (adapting a play by Tarell Alvin McCraney) creates a world so dense with detail and rich with humanity that every character gets a chance to shine; the themes and ideas are all above board, but conveyed with subtlety and understatement. Our critic described it as “a poem written in light, music and vivid human faces.” (“Eighth Grade” and “It Felt Like Love” are similarly complicated coming-of-age stories on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
Robert De Niro won his second Academy Award for his fiercely physical and psychologically punishing performance in this searing adaptation of the autobiography of the middleweight champion Jake LaMotta. It’s a relentlessly downbeat piece of work, but the force of De Niro’s performance and the energy of Martin Scorsese’s direction are hard to overstate, or to forget. Our critic called it Scorsese’s “most ambitious film as well as his finest.” (De Niro and Scorsese’s later collaboration “The King of Comedy” is also on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
An unexplained and unstoppable zombie uprising forces a group of strangers to join forces for a common goal in this 1968 horror classic from director George A. Romero. In the half-century since its release, it’s been justifiably praised for its pseudo-documentary, newsreel aesthetic, as well as the adjacent social commentary and political subtext (particularly with regards to its African-American lead, and the unexpected payoff of its grim final scene). But it also remains, after all these years, scary as hell. (If you’re looking for a newer chiller, try out “Hereditary.”)
Watch on Amazon
This classic 1952 Western from the director Fred Zinnemann is best remembered for its innovative construction, in which a small-town marshal’s looming standoff with a revenge-seeking outlaw is dramatized in real time. The film was widely read as an allegory for the film industry blacklists of the era — the screenwriter Carl Foreman was deemed an “uncooperative witness” by the House Un-American Activities Committee. But “High Noon” also cleared an important path for the future of the Western, replacing the usual genre high jinks with thoughtful explorations of masculinity and violence; our critic called it “a Western of rare achievement.” (Western lovers may enjoy the John Wayne classic “Red River.”)
Watch on Amazon
South Korean master Park Chan-wook (“Oldboy”) takes the stylistic trappings of a period romance and gooses them with scorching eroticism and one of the most ingenious con-artist plots this side of “The Sting.” Working from the Sarah Waters novel “Fingersmith,” Park begins with the story of a young woman who, as part of a seemingly straightforward swindle, goes to work as a Japanese heiress’s handmaiden, occasionally pausing the plot to slyly reveal new information, reframing what we’ve seen and where we think he might go next. Manohla Dargis dubbed it an “amusingly slippery entertainment.” (For a more classically flavored story of women on the take, try “Love & Friendship.”)
Watch on Amazon
Directed by Howard Hawks, this 1940 film wasn’t the first cinematic adaptation of the popular play “The Front Page,” but it cooked up a twist the 1931 version hadn’t: What if Hildy Johnson, the superstar reporter whom the ruthless editor Walter Burns will keep on his staff at any cost, wasn’t his drinking buddy but his ex-wife? It’s a movie that talks fast and moves faster, and the passage of nearly 80 years hasn’t slowed it down a bit. Our critic called it “a bold-faced reprint of what was once—and still remains—the maddest newspaper comedy of our times.” (For more classic romance, check out “Royal Wedding,” “My Man Godfrey,” or “Born Yesterday.”)
Watch on Amazon
Reeling from the costly disaster of his ill-fated “Dune” adaptation, director David Lynch retreated to his roots— a low-budget independent production, based on nothing more than the odd notions rattling around his own head — and came up with a masterpiece. This twisted mystery thriller follows a naïve young man (Lynch’s frequent lead, Kyle MacLachlan) as he peers under the rocks of his seemingly idyllic small town and discovers the monsters scurrying beneath. Our critic deemed it “as fascinating as it is freakish.”
Watch on Amazon
Three years after reinventing the crime movie with “Bonnie and Clyde,” director Arthur Penn worked similar magic on the Western, adapting Thomas Berger’s novel about a very old man (Dustin Hoffman) who tells the tale of his exploits in the Old West, where he was raised by Native Americans. The film’s attitudes toward indigenous people were boldy progressive at the time of its release, in 1970, coming as it did during a period when most Westerns still teemed with racist images of “merciless Indian savages.” (Source: The Declaration of Independence.) Our critic called it a “tough testament to the contrariness of the American experience.” (Hoffman admirers will also want to seek out “Marathon Man.”)
Watch on Amazon
Between the first two “Godfather” epics, Francis Ford Coppola wrote and directed this modest character study, in which a proudly impersonal surveillance expert (Gene Hackman) becomes unexpectedly invested in the subjects of his work and then decides he must step in to save their lives. Like its protagonist, “The Conversation” is most riveting in its quietest moments, though its bold opening sequence — in which Caul attempts to eavesdrop on a whispered conversation in a crowded park — is both brilliant filmmaking and a riveting snapshot of Watergate-era America. Our critic praised Hackman’s “superb performance.” (Like paranoid thrillers? Try David Fincher’s “The Game” or Gregory Hoblit’s “Primal Fear.”)
Watch on Amazon
Asghar Farhadi writes and directs this lucid and contemplative morality play, in which a married couple must grapple with the fallout of an assault on the wife in their home, particularly when the husband’s desire for vengeance surpasses her own. Farhadi’s brilliance at capturing the complexities of his native Iran’s culture is as astonishing as ever — particularly when coupled with insights into victimhood, justice, poverty and intimacy that know no borders. A.O. Scott praised the picture’s “rich and resonant ideas.” (Foreign film fans may also enjoy “Cold War” and “Embrace of the Serpent.”)
Watch on Amazon
Martin Scorsese is best known for kinetic gangster movies like “Goodfellas,” “The Departed,” and “Casino,” but sometimes another Scorsese surfaces, the director of quiet, austere meditations on religious faith like “The Last Temptation of Christ,” “Kundun” and this 2016 adaptation of the novel by Shusaku Endo. Scorsese sheds his customary stylistic flourishes and explores the central theological problem with humble solemnity, resulting in one of his riskiest films, and one of his most rewarding. Our critic praised its “haunting tableaus and performances.” (Scorsese’s “Hugo” is also on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
So much of contemporary science fiction is merely action in sci-fi clothing (the “Independence Day” effect, 22 years on) that it’s refreshing to encounter a film that uses its big budget, name actors and special effects to imagine not how we would battle extraterrestrials, but how we would try to embrace and understand them. Amy Adams and Jeremy Renner star as a linguist and a mathematician who attempt to establish a common language with the inhabitants of an alien ship — all while an impatient world and trigger-happy military clamor for answers and bend to paranoia. Our critic admired how it works in a “more idealistic hopeful key than most movies in this genre.” 
Watch on Amazon
This stunning documentary concerns the life and writings of James Baldwin, but it’s less focused on tracing the arc of its subject’s life than on the potency of his words. Director Raoul Peck uses as his framework the notes of Baldwin’s unfinished book “Remember This House,” in which Baldwin was attempting to reckon with the legacies of Martin Luther King, Malcolm X and Medgar Evers; guided by Baldwin’s passages, Peck constructs an urgent and audacious essay about our past and our present. Our critic called it “a concise, roughly 90-minute movie with the scope and impact of a 10-hour mini-series.” (Documentary lovers should also seek out “Stories We Tell” and “Nuts!”)
Watch on Amazon
One of the most enduring images of the great Buster Keaton comes from this 1928 classic, in which a clueless Keaton, wandering the streets of his hometown during a cyclone, pauses for a moment in front of a building — which collapses around him, his life saved only by his accidental position in the landing place of an open window. Our critic called it “one of the most astonishing sight gags ever filmed,” and good news: The rest of the movie is wonderful too. (For more of Mr. Keaton, stream “College” on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
This vibrant and playful 2017 exploration of the life of Emily Dickinson comes from the fertile mind of the great British writer and director Terence Davies (“The Deep Blue Sea”), who so frequently and masterfully unearths the raw desires and emotional truths of the periods he explores. This time, he has the good fortune of partnering up with Cynthia Nixon in the leading role; she adroitly dramatizes Dickinson’s journey, emphasizing the humor and happiness of her earlier years, and how that joy gradually dissipated. “Though ‘A Quiet Passion’ is small,” our critic wrote, “it contains multitudes.”
Watch on Amazon
Joel and Ethan Coen’s story of a struggling folk singer in Greenwich Village in 1961 cheerfully intertwines fact and fiction; they faithfully reproduce that period, and incorporate many of its key figures into a week in the life of the title character (played by Oscar Isaac). But this is not just a museum piece, or a “music movie.” It’s about the feeling of knowing that success is overdue, and yet may never arrive. A.O. Scott called it an “intoxicating ramble.” (For a more traditional musical drama, check out “Fiddler on the Roof.”)
Watch on Amazon
Kenneth Lonergan makes films about people in turmoil, roiled by bottomless sadness, dysfunction and guilt. Casey Affleck won an Oscar for his nuanced portrayal of Lee Chandler, a Boston plumber who, for all practical purposes, is broken; Lucas Hedges is prickly and funny as the nephew who needs him to put himself together again. Keenly observed, emotionally fraught and surprisingly funny, it’s a tear-jerker in the best sense, never stooping to cheap manipulation. Our critic called it “a finely shaded portrait.” (For more indie drama, try “Mystic Pizza.”)
Watch on Amazon
Meryl Streep won her second Oscar for this elegiac adaptation of the William Styron novel, directed by Alan J. Pakula (“All the President’s Men”). What begins as a folksy story of a would-be writer and his friendship with the couple upstairs grows into something far more traumatic, as the naïve, young Stingo (Peter MacNicol) discovers exactly what led Sophie (Streep), a Polish immigrant, to lose her two children before immigrating to the United States. Our critic wrote, “It's a film that casts a powerful, uninterrupted spell.” (For a somewhat lighter literary adaptation, queue up “Wonder Boys.”)
Watch on Amazon
“Fences,” August Wilson’s Pulitzer Prize-winning play about an African-American family’s struggles in 1950s Pittsburgh, was first performed on Broadway in 1987; after Denzel Washington starred in its 2010 revival, he retained much of the original cast for this film adaptation, which he directed himself. The familiarity with the material and the cast’s familiarity with one another is clear: The characters have the offhand intimacy of family and longtime friends, and the psychological minefields of Wilson’s text are navigated with subtle dexterity. Our critic called it “much more than a filmed reading.” (Also recommended: “Ordinary People,” another tricky family drama, from Robert Redford, another actor turned director.)
Watch on Amazon
A young man’s coming of age becomes a group project when his single mother (Annette Bening) reaches out to their housemates and friends for help, resulting in a slightly more complicated education than she envisioned. This touching and personal dramedy from the writer-director Mike Mills (“Beginners”) deftly conveys the period without relying on caricature, and resists resorting to cheap villainy or soapboxing. Every character is brought to life with humor and sensitivity, and Bening’s work is among her very best. Manohla Dargis deemed it “a funny, emotionally piercing story.”
Watch on Amazon
We’ve seen countless stories of nasty, selfish people who go on a voyage of self-discovery and come out the other side as better, wiser souls. This acidic comedy-drama asks: What if that journey didn’t take? Mavis Gary (Charlize Theron, in take-no-prisoners mode), a bitter young-adult author who returns to her hometown in hopes of reuniting with her high-school boyfriend, his picture-perfect married life be damned. A film that zigs when you’re certain it will zag, “Young Adult” tells a satisfying story that is also a sly critique of the conventions of modern moviemaking. Our critic praised its “brilliant, brave and breathtakingly cynical heart.”
Watch on Amazon
In 1989, the country was shocked by the sexual assault and near-death of a young white jogger in Central Park. Five black and Latino youths were quickly charged, tried, sentenced and imprisoned — until a serial rapist confessed over a decade later, his claim borne out by DNA evidence. This informative and infuriating documentary by Ken Burns, Sarah Burns and David McMahon meticulously details the charged atmosphere in which the five teenagers were accused and convicted, as well as the tremendous personal toll taken by this miscarriage of justice. Our critic called it “emotionally stirring.”
Watch on Amazon
Michelle Pfeiffer finally found her star-making role in this deliriously enjoyable gangster comedy from the director Jonathan Demme (“The Silence of the Lambs”). She plays Angela de Marco, a Mob widow who finds herself caught between the crime family of her dead husband (Alec Baldwin) and the affable F.B.I. man (Matthew Modine) who wants her to work for him. Jazzily mounted and giddily funny, our critic called it “wildly overdecorated screwball farce.” (For more modern screwball fun, stream “The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert” or “Dirty Rotten Scoundrels” on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
Over the course of this wistful and lovely low-key dramedy from Jim Jarmusch, the bus-driving poet named Paterson (Adam Driver) does not seek success, discovery or even publication. That’s not why he writes — it’s about routine and release. Intoxicatingly lived-in, “Paterson” is a valentine to all of those who create art not to make a living, but to sustain their souls in the meantime. Our critic praised its “visual precision and emotional restraint.”
Watch on Amazon
Set at a group home for troubled teens, this 2013 indie drama from director Destin Daniel Cretton casts aside the after school-special conventions typical of such stories and digs out the dramatic truths buried within. Cretton offsets the inherently downbeat subject matter with an exuberant directorial hand and coaxes gutsy performances from his ace cast, including “before they were stars” turns by Brie Larson, Lakeith Stanfield, Stephanie Beatriz and Rami Malek. Our critic noted, “Mr. Cretton manages to earn your tears honestly.” (Admirers of indie coming-of-age dramas should also check out “Mud” and “Precious.”)
Watch on Amazon
Charles Chaplin’s first feature-length comedy — “six reels of joy,” according to the original advertisements — was informed by his suspicion that audiences would grow restless if subjected to an hour-plus of gags and slapstick. So he went all-in on pathos, creating a story in which his iconic Little Tramp character discovers an abandoned baby, raises the child as his own and must then summon all his ingenuity to keep their makeshift family intact. Even this first time out, Chaplin juggles the seemingly incongruent tones with ease. Our critic praised Chaplin’s “inimitable pantomime.” (Silent movie fanatics will also want to stream the Amazon original “Wonderstruck.”)
Watch on Amazon
Emily V. Gordon and Kumail Nanjiani based their first screenplay on their own, unconventional love story — a courtship that was paused, then oddly amplified by an unexpected illness and a medically induced coma. This isn’t typical rom-com fodder, but it’s written and played with such honesty and heart that it somehow lands. Nanjiani and Zoe Kazan (standing in for Gordon) generate easy, lived-in chemistry and a rooting interest in the relationship, while a second-act appearance by Holly Hunter and Ray Romano as her parents creates a prickly tension that gives way to hard-won affection. Our critic deemed it “a joyous, generous-hearted romantic comedy.” (If you like your comedies with a dash of heartfelt drama, we recommend “Moonstruck” and“Jeff, Who Lives at Home.”)
Watch on Amazon
As director of the “Ocean’s” trilogy, Steven Soderbergh honored the classic heist movie aesthetic: sleek, classy and star-studded. And then he set out to subvert all of those conventions with this working-class heist comedy, in which a minor character describes its central job as “Ocean’s 7-11.” The key players are familiar (the safecracker, the computer whiz, the sexy girl, the brains of the operation), but they’re done with salty fun and earthy humor. You’ll never say “cauliflower” the same way again. Our critic dubbed it “gravity-defying” and “ridiculously entertaining.” (Caper movie fans may also enjoy the somewhat grittier “A Simple Plan” and “Good Time.”)
Watch on Amazon
Osgood Perkins — son of the “Psycho” star Anthony Perkins — writes and directs this unnerving and disturbing story of creepy goings-on at a near-empty girls’ boarding school. The performances (from Kiernan Shipka, Lucy Boynton, and Emma Roberts) are sharp and the scares are genuine, while Perkins’ orchestration of mood and atmosphere is chillingly effective. Our critic called it “perfectly acted and gorgeously filmed.”
Watch on Amazon
Kevin Costner, Susan Sarandon and Tim Robbins were all propelled to the next level of stardom by this 1988 sleeper hit from the writer-director Ron Shelton, and it’s not hard to see why. It’s a laid-back charmer, endlessly funny and casually sexy, and it gives all of them the opportunity to do what they do best: it features Costner shooting straight, Sarandon smoldering, and Robbins playing an amiable goofball. Our critic praised its “spirit and sex appeal.” (Sarandon also stars in “Thelma and Louise,” currently streaming on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
The first two collaborations between Clint Eastwood and director Sergio Leone, “A Fistful of Dollars” and “A Few Dollars More,” did nothing less than reinvent a genre, diverting popular attention from the increasingly stodgy traditional Western to the so-called “Spaghetti Western,” which ramped up the bloodshed, self-awareness and stylistic exuberance. Those films were modest, low-budget affairs, but Leone and Eastwood broke the mold with this trilogy-ending masterpiece in 1966, which runs nearly three hours and elevates its antiheroes to near-mythic status. Our critic called it “luridly intoxicating.” (“A Fistful of Dollars”and “For a Few Dollars More” are also streaming on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
The original 1956 “Invasion of the Body Snatchers,” in which alien invaders implant themselves in humans and take on their form, was widely seen as an allegory for the Red Scare. This “dazzling remake,” as our critic described it, is updated and released from that context, but it found another in post-hippie, health-obsessed San Francisco. The stakes are lower, but the remake has a self-aware sense of humor and a decent proportion of gross-outs and jump-scares, as well as an ending that’s just as creepy as the original’s. (Fans of trippy thrillers will also enjoy “Always Shine.”)
Watch on Amazon
The esteemed character actor Charles Laughton made his one and only trip behind the camera for this haunting small-town thriller. Robert Mitchum crafts a chilling, unforgettable performance as Harry Powell, a mysterious stranger who romances a widowed mother (a superb Shelley Winters) whose children seem to be the only ones capable of seeing the evil within him. Our critic called it “clever and exceptionally effective.” (Classic movie fans will also want to stream David Lean’s 1946 adaptation of “Great Expectations.”)
Watch on Amazon
John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd kicked off the tradition of translating “Saturday Night Live” characters to the big screen with this outsized musical-action-comedy from the director John Landis (“Animal House”). The plot is old hat: The title characters try to put their old band back together in order to save their childhood orphanage. But it proves to be an ingenious clothesline upon which Aykroyd and Landis’s script can hang a serious of rousing musical numbers and car-crunching chase scenes. Our critic called those sequences “dazzling.” (For more irreverent musical comedy, check out “A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum.”)
Watch on Amazon
The director John Schlesinger captures the sights and sounds (and practically the smells) of Times Square in the late 1960s with this absorbing winner of the Oscar for Best Picture — the first and only X-rated movie to capture that prize. Jon Voight was propelled to stardom by his charming performance as Joe Buck, a naïve Texas boy who comes to New York City with visions of rich women in his head; Dustin Hoffman created another memorable character as the street-wise native who shows him the ropes. (“I’m walkin’ here!”) Our critic called it “a moving experience that captures the quality of a time and a place.”
Watch on Amazon
This Polish possession story from the writer and director Marcin Wrona opens on a note of uncertainty and dread and then holds it for 94 harrowing minutes. Wrona transforms the relatable fears of wedding day into something far more sinister, as our groom protagonist discovers horrifying skeletons in his new family’s closet (or, more accurately, its yard); the filmmaker offsets the considerable nightmare imagery and wild-eyed desperation with piercing moments of gallows humor, particularly in contemplating how “sensible people” might react to these events. Our critic praised its “light shivers” and “bluntly old-fashioned screen magic.”
Watch on Amazon
Oliver Stone graduated from a respected screenwriter to a top-flight filmmaker with this harrowing Vietnam War drama, which won Oscars for best Picture and director. Stone based the film on his own experiences in Vietnam, with Charlie Sheen as his avatar, a clean-cut kid from a privileged background whose eyes are opened to the horrors of combat and conflict. Willem Dafoe and Tom Berenger singe the screen as his sergeants, one free-spirited and open, the other hard-edged and cruel. Our critic called it a “vivid, terse, exceptionally moving” film. (For a more conventional war movie, queue up “The Great Escape.”)
Watch on Amazon
Advertisement"
