0
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Paul Mozur and Karen WeiseSHANGHAI — Under China’s president, Xi Jinping, the last vestiges of the global internet have slowly disappeared from an online world that had already shut out Twitter, Google and Facebook.Now one of the last survivors, Microsoft’s Bing search engine, appears to have joined them — even though the American company already censors its results in China.The Chinese government appeared to block the search engine on Wednesday, in what would be a startling renunciation of more than a decade of efforts by Microsoft to engage with Beijing to make its products available. If the block proves to be permanent, it would suggest that Western companies can do little to persuade China to give them access to what has become the world’s largest internet market by users, especially at a time of increased trade and economic tensions with the United States.The Redmond, Wash., company has cooperated with local companies to provide its Windows and cloud services to win acceptance by the Chinese government. Its long-established research and development center has turned out valuable products and launched the careers of a generation of artificial-intelligence experts who have started important new companies in China.Beijing has carried out several waves of increasingly intense crackdowns on internet freedoms as the Communist Party has cemented its control over more aspects of Chinese life. That includes cracking down on foreign internet products, including blocks on Instagram and WhatsApp in recent years.Lately, the Chinese authorities have questioned or detained activists for posting on Twitter, even though the vast majority of people in China can’t access the microblogging service. (The activists generally posted on Twitter via special software that can circumvent China’s censors.)Chinese officials disclose few specifics about their censorship practices, and Bing’s status as of Thursday was not entirely clear. The Cyberspace Administration of China did not immediately respond to a request for comment.In a statement, Microsoft said, “We’ve confirmed that Bing is currently inaccessible in China and are engaged to determine next steps.”Greatfire.org, a group that tracks what sites are blocked in China, said the site appeared to be inaccessible in parts of the country but reachable in others. China’s blockages often take time to spread nationwide, though in the past some services have been blocked in some places only to be restored later.With Bing, Microsoft tried to play by China’s rules. For example, a search for the Dalai Lama, the religious leader, would turn up state media accounts within China that accused him of stirring up hatred and separatism. Outside the country, it would point to sites like Wikipedia.Other searches, like for Tiananmen Square or the Falun Gong religious group, were similarly scrubbed, though over the years users reported that using coded language could help turn up posts about some topics that were generally controlled.Blocking Bing would brick over one of the last holes in a wall of online filters that has isolated China’s internet from the rest of the world. Although not widely used in China, Bing has remained an option of last resort for some in China looking for an alternative to the dominant local search engine, Baidu. While it continues to dominate search traffic in China, Baidu has been at the center of complaints about poor search results and advertisements for questionable medical treatments.Earlier this week, a former journalist, Fang Kecheng, accused Baidu of largely returning search results that were links to its own products instead of those from external sites. The accusation, which Mr. Fang posted on social media with the headline “Baidu the Search Engine is Dead,” went viral in China.Baidu said in a statement that less than 10 percent of its search results included one specific Baidu product that Mr. Fang had singled out, and that its practices of using its own products in search results helped speed up download times.In an interview, Mr. Fang said the Chinese internet was developing into a series of walled gardens, rather than the sprawling forum for ideas that makes online life appealing to many, thanks to censorship and to the rise of big Chinese internet companies like Tencent and Bytedance that dominate the online experience on mobile phones. Blocking Bing would only make it worse.“Bing compromised in order to have a Chinese version to get into the country,” said Mr. Fang, a doctoral candidate at the Annenberg School for Communication at University of Pennsylvania. “It would be pathetic if even this can’t exist. We have one less alternative.”China has long been a difficult market for Microsoft. For years, it struggled to contend with widespread piracy of its Windows and Office software.In July 2014, four of its offices in China were stormed by officials who questioned executives, copied contracts and records and downloaded data from the company’s servers. What was described as an antitrust inquiry was spurred by Microsoft’s decision to end support for older Windows software to encourage users to switch to newer versions that were more difficult to pirate, according to analysts. The withdrawal of support for a still widely used, if dated, version of Windows only underscored the country’s reliance on foreign software.In 2017, to ensure state support for Windows, the company partnered with a state-run firm to produce a government-approved version of its Windows 10 software. The firm, Chinese Electronics Technology Corporation, makes electronics for the Chinese military and is a major vendor of surveillance technology in Xinjiang, where the government has thrown hundreds of thousands of Uighurs, a local Muslim minority, into re-education camps.Beijing has insisted on closer scrutiny of software used by government agencies and companies since Edward Snowden, a former American government consultant, revealed that United States intelligence agencies used American technology for hacking purposes.Despite the difficulties, foreign companies still hold out hope for access to China, which with its size and its thriving mobile phone culture represents a potentially vast market. LinkedIn and Airbnb still have businesses there, though they take pains to comply with local laws. LinkedIn, which Microsoft bought in 2016, censors content in China, and Airbnb coordinates with local authorities to provide access about who is staying at its listings.But trade tensions between China and the United States are only adding to the difficulties. Many American companies, along with Trump administration officials, accuse China of systematically forcing American companies to hand over their intellectual property to local partners or to government officials in the name of national security. So far, China has stopped short of boycotting American products, which could escalate the trade conflict and damage the Chinese economy.Baidu’s falling reputation led to some support among China’s intelligentsia for a re-entry by Google into the market with a censored search engine internally code-named Project Dragonfly. Its plans led to widespread criticism from Google’s own employees. Some Chinese activists also protested, arguing a censored search would be tantamount to complicity with Chinese censorship. Google’s chief executive, Sundar Pichai, has said it is “not close to launching a search product in China.”Mr. Fang, the former journalist, said he had mixed feelings about a Google re-entry, noting that it would be good for Chinese who want a better search engine, but also that it would normalize censorship.“I feel people in the West can say from their point of view that they are totally against Google coming back, as they have nothing to do with China,” he said. “But as someone who truly wishes that Chinese are able to get better-quality information, I can’t 100 percent stand against it.”Paul Mozur reported from Shanghai, and Karen Weise from Seattle. Qiqing Lin contributed research.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)After two years of bitter patent battles across three continents, Apple and the chip maker Qualcomm have settled all of their disputes, Don Clark and Daisuke Wakabayashi of the NYT report.• The companies “agreed to dismiss all litigation between them worldwide. They added that they had reached a six-year agreement for Apple to pay unspecified royalties on Qualcomm’s patents.”• “That deal, which was effective as of April 1, included a two-year option for an extension, plus a multiyear agreement for Qualcomm to supply chips to Apple. In addition, Apple will make an undisclosed one-time payment to Qualcomm.”Hours later, Intel said it would stop selling smartphone modem chips — including 5G models that Apple had been expected to use next year — citing “no clear path to profitability.” Nikkei Asian Review reports, citing unnamed sources, that Apple had been concerned about relying solely on Intel for its 5G chips.And Qualcomm’s shares jumped 23 percent after it said it expected $2 per share in additional revenue from the settlement.“I’m floored,” said Patrick Moorhead, president and principal analyst at Moor Insights & Strategy, a technology analysis firm. “Qualcomm got the bigger win because it had the most to lose and the most to gain. And it ended today.”“How much the deal might affect people’s phone prices will not be clear until more financial details of the settlement are disclosed. But the effect on the price of individual handsets is not likely to be large,” Mr. Clark and Mr. Wakabayashi write.More 5G news: Nokia wants to take on Huawei on next-generation wireless infrastructure. And Huawei said that it has no 5G contracts from mainland China.Shares in Sprint tumbled over 7 percent yesterday after the WSJ reported that Justice Department staffers had concerns about its proposed sale to T-Mobile USA.Justice Department officials met with both carriers earlier this month to discuss the merger, according to news reports. They showed some skepticism about the structure of the transaction.But one man will decide whether to block the deal. That’s Makan Delrahim, the head of the Justice Department’s antitrust division — and it isn’t clear which way he is leaning.T-Mobile’s C.E.O., John Legere, is pushing back. He tweeted that the WSJ’s description of the meeting, which had Justice Department staffers saying the deal was “unlikely to be approved as currently structured,” was “simply untrue.”The companies still have about a month of regulatory reviews to wait out. And they could still make changes to the transaction to win over Washington officials.More: The White House is refusing House Democrats’ request for any documents about President Trump and the Justice Department review of AT&T’s takeover of Time Warner. The business of multibillion-dollar deals and complex derivative trades wasn’t Wall Street’s cash cow in the first quarter. That honor fell to bank branches, consumer apps and credit cards, Robert Armstrong of the FT reports.• “Over the past 12 months, shares in Morgan Stanley, which has no retail unit, and Goldman Sachs, which has only a tiny one, are the worst performing among the six big U.S. banks, having fallen 11 percent and 21 percent, respectively.”• “Conversely, JPMorgan and BofA, with the strongest retail units, trade at the widest premiums to tangible book value in the group.”• “ ‘Corporate and investment banking is not a source of growth, and asset management is not [either]. All the growth is coming from the retail banks,’ said Charles Peabody of Portales Partners.”• The big question, Mr. Armstrong writes, is how long this will last. Banks have kept deposit rates low even as the Fed’s rates have risen. But the difference between shorter-term and longer-term interest rates is narrowing, threatening that income.In the wake of two fatal crashes, two influential shareholder advisory firms have recommended big changes to Boeing’s board of directors, including a partial demotion for Dennis Muilenberg, the C.E.O.Mr. Muilenberg should lose his role as chairman, I.S.S. and Glass Lewis said. The two proxy advisory firms, who hold sway over many institutional investors, often recommend having an independent chairman.Separating the roles “eliminates the conflict of interest that inevitably occurs when a C.E.O. is responsible for self-oversight,” Glass Lewis wrote in its report to investors, according to the WSJ.Also under pressure: the head of Boeing’s audit committee, Lawrence Kellner. Glass Lewis want him removed for failing to foresee safety risks on the 737 Max planes.Boeing defended its current board and said it should decide its own leadership structure. “The board is not aware of clear evidence demonstrating that splitting the C.E.O. and chairman roles is good for all companies in all circumstances,” the company said in its proxy filing.Ads that ran alongside anti-vaccine content. Accusations of abetting child suicide. Viral content that showed pedophiles were flourishing in comments sections. YouTube has had a rough time recently. Daisuke Wakabayashi of the NYT looks at how its C.E.O., Susan Wojcicki, is coping.• “In an industry that celebrates eccentricity, Ms. Wojcicki presents as exceedingly normal, bordering on boring, even as elements of her digital realm burst into the real world in forms that are increasingly grotesque and sometimes dangerous.”• “Political figures and tech luminaries alike are castigating YouTube for not doing enough to rein in the crooks, crackpots, racists, Russian agents and charlatans who call the platform home. New horrors are ceaseless.”• Now, “YouTube wants to remove the content that violates its policies more quickly and effectively; promote better, more authoritative material and limit the spread of videos that are potentially harmful but does not break the rules.”• “I know we can do better, but we’re going to get there,” she said in an interview. “I own this problem, and I’m going to fix it.”• Ms. Wojcicki is unlikely to be unseated anytime soon. While she technically reports to Sundar Pichai, Google’s C.E.O., she is one of the few people at the tech giant with “walk-in access” to Larry Page, Alphabet’s reclusive co-founder and C.E.O. “She is not going anywhere,” one Google executive told Mr. Wakabayashi.The Chinese economy steadied itself in the first three months of the year, after Beijing flooded the financial system with money to avoid a slowdown, Alexandra Stevenson of the NYT reports.The world’s second largest economy was 6.4 percent bigger in the first quarter than in the same period of 2018, Ms. Stevenson reports, citing figures provided by Chinese officials. “The pace matched that of the fourth quarter, when growth suffered as shoppers pared back, the stock market slumped and private businesses pleaded for help.”“While economists generally regard China’s economic figures with skepticism, they point to other signs that the country’s current slowdown may have reached bottom. Other figures suggest shoppers are back at the tills, factory output is ticking up and the world, after several tough months, is buying more Chinese goods.”“Beijing needs such hopeful signs as it tries to reach a trade deal with the Trump administration while under pressure to lift conditions at home.”But there’s a caveat. The improvement probably has more to do with all that stimulus cash than with any sudden increase in business confidence. And it’s unclear how long the cash can keep flowing.More: As unlikely as it sounds, some business leaders and intellectuals in China see President Trump — one of Beijing’s toughest critics — as a kind of savior for the nation. As a lawmaker, Mick Mulvaney tried to abolish the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. And when the Trump administration made him its acting director, he steadily undercut it from within, Nick Confessore reports in the NYT Magazine.• “When Mulvaney took over, the fledgling C.F.P.B. was perhaps Washington’s most feared financial regulator: It announced dozens of cases annually against abusive debt collectors, sloppy credit agencies and predatory lenders.”• “What he left behind is an agency whose very mission is now a matter of bitter dispute. ‘The bureau was constructed really deliberately to protect ordinary people,’ says Lisa Donner, the head of Americans for Financial Reform. “He’s taken it apart — dismantled it, piece by piece.’ ”• “Some career employees saw a kind of strategic ambiguity at work, designed to muddle decision-making and insulate Mulvaney as he neutered the agency’s enforcement work.”• The deconstruction “offers a case study in the Trump administration’s approach to transforming Washington, one in which strategic neglect and bureaucratic self-sabotage create versions of agencies that seem to run contrary to their basic premises.”• This “wasn’t just one of the Trump era’s most emblematic assaults on the so-called administrative state,” Mr. Confessore writes. It was “also, in part, an audition” to become the White House chief of staff.Robert Jackson Jr., the S.E.C.’s only Democratic commissioner, is expected to step down later this year.Ulrich Spiesshofer abruptly stepped down as C.E.O. of ABB after facing pressure from activist investors. He will be replaced in the interim by Peter Voser, the company’s chairman.Nissan has reportedly abolished its “office of the C.E.O.,” a group of executives who worked for the chief executive.Deals• James Murdoch reportedly plans to invest about $1 billion into new media companies after his family sold the bulk of its media empire to Walt Disney. (FT)• Commerzbank is said to have been approached by the Dutch lender ING about a potential merger before it began deal talks with Deutsche Bank. (FT)• Expedia Group agreed to buy Liberty Expedia Holdings for $2.6 billion in stock to simplify its ownership structure. (Bloomberg)• KKR has profited handsomely by investing in Marshall Wace, the big British hedge fund. (Bloomberg)• Netflix says it has “no big need” for mergers. (Business Insider)Politics and policy• Democratic presidential contenders are spending their fund-raising cash on digital ads, huge rallies and unexpectedly large staffs. (NYT)• And House Democratic freshmen have maintained a torrid fund-raising pace to hold onto their seats. (Politico)• UnitedHealth’s C.E.O., David Wichman, said yesterday that Medicare for all, as proposed by leading Democrats, would “destabilize the nation’s health system.” (CNBC)• Terry Gou, Foxconn’s founder, said a sea goddess has persuaded him to run for the presidency of Taiwan. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Here’s what the Brexit delay means for the forthcoming E.U. elections. (FT)• Brexit is proving bad for people’s mental health. (FT)Trade• The enforcement mechanism America wants in its proposed agreement with China could also be a powerful weapon for Beijing. (Bloomberg)• The U.S. and Japan will fast-track their trade talks, partly by narrowing the scope. (FT)Tech• Jack Dorsey of Twitter promised changes to clean up his social network. But can he do it? (Axios, Wired)• How Hulu’s ads could help it in the streaming wars. (NYT)• Microsoft turned down a facial-recognition contract with a California law enforcement agency over rights concerns. (Reuters)• Here’s an insightful — if extremely long — look at Facebook’s troubled 15 months. (Wired)• The NYT spent $60 on a facial recognition system to study crowds in a park. It worked scarily well. (NYT)Best of the rest• Donations for the restoration of Notre-Dame have surpassed 600 million euros, or about $675 million. (NYT)• Researchers at the Commerce Department’s Bureau of Economic Analysis want to measure how wealth is shared across America. (WSJ)• Nissan and Renault have ousted Carlos Ghosn. But can they save their partnership? (NYT)• Richard Liu, the billionaire founder of the Chinese e-commerce giant JD.com, has been accused of rape in a lawsuit. (NYT)• The highest-paid financial professionals work in real estate investment trusts. (WSJ)• Employee wellness programs do little good. (NYT)• What it was like for a Lehman Brothers veteran to watch “The Lehman Trilogy.” (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Aramco, Saudi Arabia’s giant oil company, announced yesterday that it had bought 70 percent of the kingdom’s state-controlled petrochemical company, Sabic, for $69.1 billion.This is an alternative to an Aramco I.P.O. The deal for a majority stake in Sabic will provide a windfall for its majority owner: Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund. Aramco’s postponed plan to sell some of itself on a public stock market would have accomplished something similar.Saudi Arabia now has the money it wanted to modernize its economy. The kingdom’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, hopes to fund a campaign to wean Saudi Arabia off oil, by investing in new technology and clean energy. Aramco has now given his government the billions required to do so.And banks still get a gusher of fees. Financial firms that had worked on an Aramco I.P.O. pivoted to advisory roles on the Sabic deal, and many will arrange what’s expected to be a huge bond sale to help finance the transaction.Expect a peek into Aramco’s books. As part of a bond offering, the oil company will have to disclose its financial operations to potential investors. It’s unclear how much it will reveal, but any look at its huge oil reserves is sure to be of interest.The planemaker explained yesterday what it plans to do to upgrade its 737 Max 8 planes, after two fatal crashes in recent months raised global concerns about its safety.Pilots will have more control to override anti-stall software and new alerts, the company said at an event at its factory in Renton, Wash. They will also receive additional training.Boeing defended its Max 8 design process. “In general the process has worked and continues to work, and we see no reason to overhaul the process,” an unnamed Boeing official told the media. (A spokesman later told the WaPo that the comment referred to the plane’s development process, not its safety certifications.)Senators raised questions about safety checks for the Max 8 at a hearing yesterday, pressing federal regulators on all aspects of the process:• The transportation secretary, Elaine Chao, called the current situation “troubling.”• The acting F.A.A. chief, Daniel Elwell, said delegating authority was crucial. Otherwise, he added, the agency needed an extra 10,000 employees and $1.8 billion to oversee safety certification.• The Transportation Department’s inspector general, Calvin Scovel, said his office would conduct an audit into the F.A.A.’s certification of the Max 8.But lawmakers remain skeptical about the regulatory process. “The F.A.A. decided to do safety on the cheap, which is neither cheap nor safe,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said.American and Chinese officials continued to piece together a trade deal during talks in Beijing this week, but progress remains relatively slow.“We have moved forward in all areas,” one unidentified senior U.S. administration official told Reuters. The source said that in particular progress has been made on the practice of forced transfer of American technology to Chinese companies, a central issue for the Trump administration.But “we aren’t yet where we want to be,” the official conceded. The FT adds that “even agreement in less controversial areas — such as increased purchases of U.S. exports and improved market access for foreign investors — is proving difficult to pin down.”Senior U.S. officials arrive in Beijing today to continue the talks. Robert Lighthizer, the U.S. trade representative, and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will seek to make more progress. Next week, Vice Premier Liu He of China will head to Washington.The timing of a deal looks increasingly uncertain. “It could go to May, June, no one knows. It could happen in April, we don’t know,” a U.S. official told Reuters.More: Senate Republicans warned President Trump that his tariffs could plunge the U.S. into a recession ahead of the 2020 election.In a last-ditch effort to gain support for her Brexit plan, Prime Minister Theresa May yesterday offered to resign as long as her agreement is approved, Stephen Castle of the NYT writes.Her offer came as Parliament tried to sideline her by coming up with its own plan for Britain’s exit from the E.U. “But when lawmakers held a series of nonbinding votes on Wednesday night on eight different options for Britain’s future relationship with the E.U., none mustered a majority,” Mr. Castle writes.“If Mrs. May’s plan is approved, the battle over the details of Brexit will be fought first in a leadership struggle in the Conservative Party and then by all the other parties and factions that have scrapped with one another throughout the last two years.”But while her deal is gaining some support, many lawmakers are still holding out. Mrs. May will need to win the support of about 70 lawmakers who have already voted against the agreement — twice. Mr. Castle writes that it is “a very tall order.”More: The fund manager Mark Mobius said that the state of Britain’s debt and currency make it look “like an emerging market now.”Behind the Trump administration’s decision this week to seek a complete rejection of the Affordable Care Act was a political wager: Can President Trump appease supporters by upholding a 2016 campaign pledge?Mr. Trump made his decision on Monday after a heated debate in the White House, the NYT reports. Egging on the president were the acting White House chief of staff, Mick Mulvaney, and a top policy aide, Joe Grogan. Opposing the move were the White House counsel, Pat Cipollone; the secretary of health and human services, Alex Azar; and the attorney general, Bill Barr.The argument for taking on Obamacare, according to the NYT: “Mr. Trump has declared that he has kept his promises, Mr. Mulvaney and Mr. Grogan argued, and as a candidate he campaigned on repealing the health law. His base of voters would love it.”Republican lawmakers are worried. They lost control of the House last year largely because of voter concerns about health care. “We need a plan, and right now we don’t have one,” one unnamed Republican senator told Politico.Others are betting against Mr. Trump. Legal scholars think that Chief Justice John Roberts would again defend the law if the matter heads to the Supreme Court. And recent polls show that independent voters don’t approve of Mr. Trump’s handling of health care.More health care news: A federal judge blocked Kentucky and Arkansas from imposing work requirements on Medicaid, a blow to Republican efforts to reshape the program. A British review of Huawei found “significant” security problems with the Chinese company’s telecommunications equipment, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.There are “underlying defects” in Huawei’s software engineering and security processes, according to the report, which was released this morning. They could be exploited by governments or independent hackers, creating a risk to national security.The report did not call for an outright ban of Huawei equipment, and “described a company with poor engineering practices and problems stemming from those engineering flaws, more than one operating at the orders of Chinese authorities,” Mr. Satariano writes. The findings were endorsed by Britain’s top cybersecurity agency.The conclusions buttress the Trump administration’s argument that Huawei is a grave risk to national security. Yet allies have resisted that push.They still want to manage the risks of using Huawei hardware rather than blocking it outright, to avoid losing momentum in building new high-speed wireless data networks. Earlier this year, the head of Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, Ciaran Martin, said that a complete ban wasn’t necessary.Investors increasingly think that as the global economy slows down, the Fed will have to cut interest rates. Officials at the central bank say that’s not in the cards — at least, not yet, Nick Timiraos of the WSJ reports.• The most recent sign of a rate cut, according to some investors, was last week’s yield-curve inversion. That was when yields on long-term Treasury notes fell below those of short-term ones, which is often interpreted as a harbinger of recession.• But some Fed officials urge patience. “I’d need to see an inversion of some magnitude and/or some duration, and right now we don’t have either,” Bob Kaplan, the president of the Dallas Fed, told the WSJ.• “If you see an inversion that goes on for several months … that’s a different kettle of fish,” he added.• The San Francisco Fed president, Mary Daly, said in a speech earlier this week that she’s “not freaked out” by the yield curve, and “hopefully businesses and market participants won’t freak out” either.More: The European Central Bank is considering how to help the continent’s banks as interest rates look to remain subzero. Swedbank fired Birgitte Bonneson as its C.E.O. today amid allegations that the Swedish lender was involved in Russian money-laundering.Chris Schaepe was ousted from Lightspeed Venture Partners after telling the firm he had hired the consultant at the heart of the college admissions scandal, though he has not been charged.Tim Throsby will step down as the head of Barclays’ investment bank.JPMorgan Chase reportedly plans to lay off hundreds of workers in its asset-management and wealth divisions.Deals• The pending I.P.O.s of Lyft and Pinterest highlight the debate over dual-class shares that let founders control companies with relatively small stock holdings. (DealBook)• Pimco and Elliott Management are reportedly pitching California lawmakers on a restructuring plan for PG&E, the bankrupt utility. (Bloomberg)• Commerzbank employees are reportedly gearing up to oppose a merger with Deutsche Bank. (Bloomberg)• Casper, the mattress company, raised $100 million from Target and other investors at a valuation of $1.1 billion. (Bloomberg)• Bustle Digital, which owns Gawker, agreed to buy The Outline, a struggling online publisher. (Recode)Politics and policy• President Trump is getting exactly what he wants from the U.S. economy — just as economic forecasters are predicting a slowdown. (NYT)• The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether to curb the power of administrative agencies like the Department of Veterans Affairs. (NYT)• Stephen Moore, the economic commentator whom Mr. Trump plans to nominate to the Fed, owes $75,000 in unpaid federal taxes and penalties. (NYT)• The House Oversight and Reform Committee is seeking 10 years’ worth of Mr. Trump’s financial records from an accounting firm. (Politico)• The Trump administration has reportedly strengthened its support for Israel in part because the shale boom has made the U.S. less dependent on oil imports. (FT)Tech• Facebook will ban white nationalist content from its platforms. Related: why video games are fertile ground for white nationalist recruitment. (NYT, NYT Op-Ed)• More on Facebook: Here’s a peek inside the growth machine that gave it more than a billion users. (FT)• Microsoft seized 99 websites that it said were used by Iranian hackers to try to steal sensitive information from people in Washington. (NYT)• President Trump met with Sundar Pichai of Google yesterday, and tweeted that the C.E.O. is “totally committed to the U.S. Military, not the Chinese Military.” (WSJ)• Flaws in Bitcoin may mean that it never bounces back to its heights. (Economist)• Millennials might not be giving up on car ownership after all. (Bloomberg Opinion)Best of the rest• A newly formed Nissan committee recommended overhauling the company’s board in order to move past the arrest of its former chairman, Carlos Ghosn. (NYT)• A New Jersey jury unanimously cleared Johnson & Johnson in the latest trial over whether its talc products caused a consumer’s cancer. (NYT)• But a California jury awarded $80.3 million in damages to a man who it decided had contracted cancer from exposure to Bayer’s Roundup weedkiller. (WSJ)• Bill McGlashan, who was ousted from TPG over the college admission scandal, argued yesterday that he hadn’t actually done anything illegal — yet. (Recode)• The Chinese delivery company Meituan is so cheap, it’s changing how people eat. (Bloomberg Businessweek)• How a TripAdvisor worker helped hunt down a prolific robocaller. (Wired)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Aviation regulators will testify before Senate subcommittees today on the crashes of two Boeing 737 Max 8 Jets, while Boeing meets with airline executives to update them on a fix for the software thought to be responsible for the accidents.The F.A.A.’s acting chief will defend the agency’s practice of delegating some plane safety checks to Boeing as “critical” to the success of the certification process. The official, Daniel Elwell, will argue that the process for the Max 8 was “detailed and thorough.”Senators are expected to ask about long-running doubts about the process. The NYT reports that F.A.A. employees and a Transportation Department watchdog worried over the years that the agency had “too close a relationship” with Boeing officials. Lawmakers will also ask why an update to the jet’s anti-stall software is still not ready.Boeing’s response to the crisis is also being questioned, particularly since its C.E.O., Dennis Muilenburg, has largely remained silent. “Their comments have been very engineering-esque,” Richard Levick, a communications expert, told the NYT. (The company’s public response has become more assertive since hiring the crisis communications firm Sard Verbinnen.)The company will meet today with 200 pilots and airline representatives at the factory where the Max 8 is made. It’s expected to offer some updates on the anti-stall software.More Boeing news: A Max 8 made an emergency landing in Orlando yesterday, though the incident is not thought to be connected to malfunctions that may have led to the two recent crashes.The European Parliament voted yesterday to pass a new copyright law requiring technology platforms to sign licensing agreements with musicians, authors and news publishers in order to post their work online, Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.“The new law is meant to force tech firms to aggressively remove unlicensed copyrighted material from their websites proactively, rather than waiting for complaints to come in before acting,” Mr. Satariano writes.The policy is deeply divisive. Digital rights activists and the tech industry say it could result in censorship. Media organizations say it should protect Europe’s creative industries and ensure companies pay for content they share online.Some digital business models could be affected, because website owners will take on more responsibility for what ends up on their platforms. Sites may find the law too expensive or cumbersome to police: Even Google shuttered its News service, which would require licenses from publishers under the new rules, when a similar initiative was introduced in Spain.Smaller organizations may be hit hardest. These websites contend that giant tech platforms already have the resources to comply with the law, Mr. Satariano writes.Purdue Pharma, the drug maker behind OxyContin, said yesterday that it will settle a lawsuit by Oklahoma’s attorney general over its role in the opioid crisis, Jan Hoffman of the NYT reports.Purdue and its owners will pay $270 million, far more than they have paid in previous settlements. The payout helps Purdue avoid a televised trial that was scheduled to begin on May 28.But many more legal battles await. A federal judge in Cleveland alone is overseeing a consolidated collection of 1,600 lawsuits, and 35 other states have sued Purdue as well.The settlement raises questions about a Purdue bankruptcy. The company has contemplated filing for Chapter 11 protection to help contain the cost of defending or settling its legal fights. In bankruptcy, lawsuit claimants would most likely get only a fraction of any court-determined payout.Chapter 11 weighed heavily in the Oklahoma case. The state made a bird-in-the-hand decision, and other plaintiffs may need to make a similar choice. “The concern is that counties and states may settle on the cheap early to avoid getting little to nothing later on,” Elizabeth Chamblee Burch, a law professor at the University of Georgia, told the NYT.New data about Wall Street compensation shows that the financial sector’s huge pay has widened the national disparity between white men and women and people of color, according to a new report from the Institute for Policy Studies, a liberal think tank.New York City’s financial sector bonus pool fell last year by 14 percent from the previous year, to $27.5 billion. But that is still three times bigger than the combined annual earnings of all U.S. full-time minimum-wage workers.A majority of financial workers are white men, especially at the top ranks, according to the institute. No less than 68 percent of senior managers at the five largest U.S. investment banks are white men.But they make up just 37 percent of America’s minimum-wage workers, who have full- or part-time jobs that pay $7.25 an hour. “Due to Washington inaction, the federal minimum wage continues to be a poverty wage, while the reckless bonus culture is alive and well on Wall Street,” the report concludes.As at least 80 patent fights between Apple and Qualcomm trickle through courts around the world, both companies scored victories yesterday, the WSJ reports.Some iPhones now face a U.S. import ban after an International Trade Commission judge issued an initial ruling yesterday finding that Apple had infringed a Qualcomm patent.But Apple scored a bigger victory when another I.T.C. judge ruled that the phone maker had not infringed a Qualcomm patent relating to power efficiency in mobile phones. That overturned a previous court finding.“Qualcomm is hoping a victory, particularly an import ban, could give it greater leverage in technology licensing negotiations,” Bloomberg explains. “Qualcomm says it’s due billions of dollars in unpaid royalties on the iPhone.”“Apple denied infringing any of the patents in the two cases and claimed Qualcomm is trying to shut its only U.S.-based competitor out of the market, something Apple argues will hinder the development of the fifth generation of mobile communications,” Bloomberg adds.Corporate America set a record for stock repurchases last year, even as lawmakers proposed curtailing the practice.Companies bought back $806.4 billion worth of their own shares, according to S&P Dow Jones Indices, with $223 billion of that coming in the fourth quarter alone. The previous high was $589.1 billion, set in 2007.The biggest buyer was Apple, which repurchased $101 billion of its stock.The buyback boom was fueled by the Trump tax cuts, with companies preferring to use their savings to repurchase shares and bolster their stock prices, rather than issue dividends or make new investments.And it came despite opposition from Congress, with lawmakers from Senator Bernie Sanders to Senator Marco Rubio arguing in favor of limits on the practice.But a repeat is unlikely this year, as the sugar rush from the tax cuts wears off.In 2013, Google started an ambitious and flashy effort to create robots under the control of Andy Rubin, who later left the company amid accusations of sexual harassment. Now, the company has overhauled the effort with more modest goals — but subtly advanced technology, Cade Metz of the NYT reports.Google’s first robot push was all about advanced machines, and was built on a series of acquisitions. Some of the companies that Google bought relied on humanoid robots, but the tech giant failed to capitalize on them, and sold off or shut down the companies over time.Now the focus is on making robots smarter by injecting them with machine-learning software. “The company is developing ways for these robots to learn skills on their own, like sorting through a bin of unfamiliar objects or navigating a warehouse filled with unexpected obstacles,” Mr. Metz writes.“Google is tight-lipped about how it hopes to deploy the technologies it is working on,” Mr. Metz adds. That’s probably because most researchers see robots being used in warehouses and distribution centers around the world, raising questions about how automation will erode jobs.DealBook exclusive: The Brunswick Group plans to announce this morning that it has hired Michael O’Looney, most recently head of communications at Elliott Management, as a partner in New York and Courtney Chiang Dorman, who previously was the C.O.O. of the law firm Wilson Sonsini, as a partner in San Francisco.JC Penney hired Bill Wafford, most recently the chief financial officer of The Vitamin Shoppe, as its C.F.O.Simon Sutton is reportedly stepping down as HBO’s chief revenue officer.Deals• Lyft reportedly plans to raise the price range of its I.P.O. amid strong investor demand. (WSJ)• Renault reportedly plans to restart merger talks with Nissan and pursue a takeover of Fiat Chrysler. (FT)• Centene has agreed to buy WellCare, a managed-care rival, for $17.3 billion, including the assumption of debt. (PR Newswire)• The Chinese gaming company that owns Grindr reportedly plans to sell the dating app after the U.S. national security panel Cfius raised concerns about its ownership. (Reuters)• Spotify agreed to buy Parcast, a producer of crime and mystery podcasts. (NYT)Politics and policy• Stephen Moore, the economic commentator whom President Trump plans to nominate as a Fed governor, said he’s no “sycophant” for the president. (NYT)• Democrats see political opportunity as Mr. Trump moves to abolish the Affordable Care Act. Here’s what would happen if the Obama health care law is struck down. (NYT)• The House failed to override Mr. Trump’s declaration of a national emergency over a border wall. (NYT)• The Green New Deal failed in a Republican-led vote in the Senate yesterday, as Democrats voted “present.” (Axios)• The Justice Department said that it plans to release a version of the Mueller report to Congress and the public within weeks. (WSJ)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal is slowly gaining support among critics in her Conservative Party — but some want her resignation in exchange for their votes. (Bloomberg)• The E.U. has reportedly suggested that if Britain asks for a long delay to Brexit, its departure could be pushed back until March 31, 2020. (Guardian)• More than half of British business leaders want a deal where Britain is closely aligned to the E.U.’s single market for goods and services. (FT)Trade• The U.S. is pressing Canada and Mexico to agree to permanent limits on the amount of steel and aluminum they export to America each year. (NYT)• China’s humiliation in the 1800s feeds into its reluctance to let the U.S. impose tariffs if Beijing fails to keep its promises on trade. (NYT)Tech• Sundar Pichai, Google’s C.E.O., will reportedly meet with the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff today to discuss the tech giant’s A.I. work in China. (Bloomberg)• A judge will hear arguments on April 4 on whether Elon Musk should be found in contempt of court. (Business Insider)• Three A.I. pioneers have won the Turing award, considered the Nobel of computing, for their work in developing artificial neural networks. (NYT)• Google is reportedly funding “dozens” of new local news websites around the U.S. (Axios)• Palantir reportedly won a Pentagon contract to build a battlefield intelligence system. (WaPo)Best of the rest• Wall Street firms, including JPMorgan Chase and Blackstone, have added #MeToo keywords like “harassment” to risk factors in their annual reports. (Business Insider)• Nissan reportedly paid at least $601,000 in Stanford tuition fees for Carlos Ghosn’s children. (Bloomberg)• Citigroup is being sued for age discrimination by a 56-year-old banker, who claims he was told “you are old and set in your ways” before being dismissed. (Bloomberg)• Lloyd’s of London announced measures to combat sexual harassment at the insurance brokerage, including lifetime bans for offenders. (Bloomberg)• Vice President Mike Pence said that the Trump administration wants NASA to put astronauts back on the moon by 2024 “by any means necessary.” (Verge)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Daisuke WakabayashiEven by the nightmarish standards of the empire she oversees, Susan Wojcicki, the chief executive officer of YouTube, has had a dreadful start to 2019. During a single week in February, BuzzFeed reported that her company was running advertisements alongside anti-vaccine content; there was a nationwide panic over the platform abetting child suicide; and a viral video showed how pedophiles were flourishing on the site.And then there was the bestiality.Thumbnail images implying human-animal sex were discovered next to children’s videos, and after an uproar, Ms. Wojcicki was obliged to call a staff meeting to address it. The topic, she allowed during a recent interview, was one “I never thought I would be handling.”Ms. Wojcicki, 50, was sitting in a conference room at YouTube headquarters in suburban San Bruno, Calif., wearing jeans, a cardigan and an expression of pure stoicism. In an industry that celebrates eccentricity, Ms. Wojcicki presents as exceedingly normal, bordering on boring, even as elements of her digital realm burst into the real world in forms that are increasingly grotesque and sometimes dangerous.Several months earlier, not far from where we sat, Ms. Wojcicki had spent 40 minutes hiding from an active shooter: a YouTube user furious about new ad standards, who shot three employees before taking her own life. Ms. Wojcicki said she knew that her policy changes could “upset some people,” but “seeing that someone could be so angry that they would come here is really hard.”Her tenure as C.E.O. wasn’t supposed to be dominated by pedophilia and attempted mass murder. When she got the job, in 2014, Ms. Wojcicki was hailed straightforwardly as the most powerful woman in advertising, someone who’d helped turn on the cash spigots in her time at Google and would presumably repeat the trick at YouTube. In the five years since, Ms. Wojcicki has introduced new forms of ads as well as subscription offerings for music, original content and the cord-cutting service YouTube TV. But somewhere along the line, her job became less about growth and more about toxic containment.Political figures and tech luminaries alike are castigating YouTube for not doing enough to rein in the crooks, crackpots, racists, Russian agents and charlatans who call the platform home. New horrors are ceaseless — last month, just before a terrorist in New Zealand massacred 50 people, he urged people to subscribe to a popular YouTuber — and reinforce the view that the platform is corroding society.Remarkably, for a person who oversees a website with more daily visitors than Facebook, Ms. Wojcicki has managed to keep a low profile and avoid much of the blame. Last year, when other social media executives were summoned to Congress for a scolding, she was not invited. She stayed home and campaigned against a new European Union law that could hold services like YouTube liable if their users upload copyrighted content.While Mark Zuckerberg, Sheryl Sandberg, Jack Dorsey and others have gotten their share of public scrutiny, Ms. Wojcicki largely has not. I wanted to get a better sense of what she was like as a C.E.O., how she was trying to tame YouTube’s hydra of issues and whether there was any sense of urgency within YouTube. And so over the last several months, I spoke to more than a dozen current and former YouTube and Google employees and interviewed Ms. Wojcicki three times.What I found was both reassuring and alarming. At the top of the world’s largest and most volatile video platform is a calm, levelheaded person. But her deliberate style may be at odds with the pace and scale of horrors and just plain stupidity that relentlessly arises on YouTube.On April 2, Bloomberg News published an article that painted a damning portrait of her and other YouTube brass — so focused on maximizing usage statistics that they looked the other way when employees raised concerns about the company’s recommendation system. Ms. Wojcicki seemed taken aback. In an April 7 interview, she said YouTube has not ignored its problem with hosting extreme and conspiracy-minded content. She said it was a large and complex issue and the company was starting to make a dent. She wasn’t defensive, but defiant and — most surprising for someone usually so measured — a little angry.“It’s not like there is one lever we can pull and say, ‘Hey, let’s make all these changes,’ and everything would be solved,” Ms. Wojcicki said. “That’s not how it works.”At one policy review meeting I observed in San Bruno, her methodical approach was on full display. In a narrow conference room lined with whiteboards and TV screens, she sat quietly with a dozen YouTube employees, watching a video called “Condom Challenge,” in which water-filled prophylactics fell onto people’s heads in extreme slow motion. Rather than bursting, the condoms inverted and engulfed their faces like a fishbowl. Ms. Wojcicki pondered whether the clip, which has nearly 15 million views, was merely juvenile or crossed the line to life-threatening. Like so much on YouTube, such “challenges” — when creators perform stunts and call out a friend to do the same — often begin as harmless memes, but morph into something more problematic.Ms. Wojcicki and her staff considered their thicket of policies. A “dangerous” (risk of bodily harm) activity could stay on YouTube as long as no minors were involved. But “ultrahazardous” (risk of death) challenges would be removed. One staffer ventured that the condom challenge seemed to belong in the former category. Ms. Wojcicki disagreed.“There’s no reason we want people putting any kind of plastic over their head,” she said, peering over the screen of her open laptop. But the video stayed up. For every minute Ms. Wojcicki spent discussing it, users uploaded to the site an additional 500 hours of footage.Unlike many of her tech-C.E.O. peers, Ms. Wojcicki (pronounced “Woe-jisky”) does not have a tidy origin story to tell reporters; there was no aha! moment in a dorm room that has been polished and embellished over the years. She didn’t drop out of Harvard; she graduated. But in 1998, Ms. Wojcicki and her husband rented part of their Menlo Park, Calif., home for $1,700 a month to a pair of Stanford University graduate students named Larry Page and Sergey Brin. They had just started a search engine called Google.Ms. Wojcicki was working for Intel at the time, and one day, she wasn’t able to find an important piece of information because Google was down. She realized that she had become dependent on “the site developed by those two dudes in my garage.” Ms. Wojcicki joined Google as its 16th employee and its first marketing manager.With a baby on the way, she was going to work for a company with no revenue. She helped turn Google into a juggernaut, developing its signature advertising product, AdWords, and overseeing its first foray into content sharing, called Google Video. In 2006, swallowing her pride, she encouraged Google to acquire a rival service called YouTube for $1.65 billion. (Morgan Stanley recently estimated that the division is now worth $160 billion.)Over the years, Ms. Wojcicki built a personal fortune estimated in the hundreds of millions, and she remains a close confidant of Mr. Page, who is now the chief executive of Google’s parent, Alphabet. One former executive told me, “Susan is the first cousin of the Google royal family.”Ms. Wojcicki’s biological family is remarkably accomplished. She is the oldest of three sisters; the middle one, Janet, is an anthropologist, epidemiologist and former Fulbright scholar; and the youngest, Anne, co-founded 23andMe, the DNA testing company. (Anne was also married to Mr. Brin until 2015.)Being part of a high-profile clan can cause confusion. Chris Dale, a YouTube spokesman, once learned that People magazine planned to run a story that Susan Wojcicki was dating Alex Rodriguez, the former New York Yankees slugger. Mr. Dale recalls sheepishly calling his boss — who had been married for more than 20 years — in the middle of a parent-teacher meeting to ask if she was having an affair. She was not. Anne, not Susan, had been seeing Mr. Rodriguez.Since taking over YouTube, fame has been something Ms. Wojcicki has tried to avoid. But she is warm and approachable in person, and for one recent interview, she arrived at the office dressed like any other Google employee, with black cowboy boots and a backpack slung over one shoulder, ready to discuss her track record. “One way I think about some of the decisions is putting myself in the future and thinking: in five or 10 years, what will they say?” Ms. Wojcicki said. “If someone were to look back on the decisions that we’re making, would they feel we were on the right side of history? Would I feel proud? Will my children feel like I made good decisions?”Whether vacuous or violent, YouTube troubles arise at a dumbfounding pace. Last year, YouTube banned both the “Tide Pod” challenge, which involved biting into laundry detergent pods, and “No lackin” videos, in which participants aim guns at each other. Confronted by one crisis after another, Ms. Wojcicki has introduced policies to curb the spread of problematic videos and raised the bar on which videos can carry advertising. The challenge is cleaning up the mess while keeping her various constituencies — users, creators, advertisers, parents, lawmakers — happy, or at least not irate.When she became C.E.O., Ms. Wojcicki inherited an audacious goal: Get users to watch more than one billion hours of videos every day, a tenfold increase from 2012. She kept the target in place and made some changes at the margins. In 2016, YouTube scaled back recommendations of sensational and clickbait-y videos, because it found users were drawn to watching them but later regretted it — a lot like eating junk food.Two of Ms. Wojcicki’s inflection points came in spring 2017. That March, major advertisers, including AT&T and Johnson & Johnson, boycotted the service after reports that their messages appeared on offensive content. Then, in June, three men drove a van into pedestrians on London Bridge. Media reports said one of the attackers had watched the inflammatory YouTube sermons of an Islamic cleric. Ms. Wojcicki said the attack clarified for her that her company could no longer keep content at arm’s length and hide behind a broadly articulated set of community guidelines.“We needed to have a deeper understanding of the issues, we needed to have much deeper enforcement and we needed to have much more precision in our policies,” Ms. Wojcicki said. In the months that followed, she added thousands of human reviewers to examine controversial videos and created an “intelligence desk” to identify percolating issues on the internet more quickly. Her staff also deployed Google’s machine-learning systems to flag extremist content.These days, YouTube says it is pursuing what the company calls “responsible growth.” When asked what that means, Ms. Wojcicki said an easy explanation was a challenge.To boil it down: YouTube wants to remove the content that violates its policies more quickly and effectively; promote better, more authoritative material and limit the spread of videos that are potentially harmful but do not break the rules.Ms. Wojcicki said the third category, so-called borderline content, has been the most challenging. Earlier this year, the company announced that it was changing its algorithm to stop recommending material like conspiracy videos that can become a gateway to the unsavory.Starting with the United States, YouTube said it would employ human raters from across the country to evaluate certain content. Those judgments will help inform what the recommendation engine flags. (Clearly, the algorithms need attention. This week, they mistakenly added information about the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks to footage of the Notre Dame fire.) YouTube said it plans to introduce the change to another 20 countries this year, deploying raters in each market to understand the preferences of local users.When asked why she didn’t act sooner, Ms. Wojcicki said she wished she had. “If I were to go back in time, I certainly would have accelerated all of these features, and I would have accelerated all of this work because now I’ve realized how important it is,” she said. “I realized at the time, too. We always thought it was important, but I can’t emphasize the number of people and systems that it is taking for us to implement it.”At the YouTube policy meeting I observed, Ms. Wojcicki asked 37 questions in one hour. They were short. And direct. In one exchange, a YouTube staffer (I agreed to not use their names) briefed her on an uptick in users uploading soft-core pornography.Ms. Wojcicki: “You feel good about the changes we made, and that that group has been managed?”Staffer: “Yes. I mean, they’ll keep evolving.”Ms. Wojcicki: “How did we find it?”The staffer described an anomaly-detection system.Ms. Wojcicki: “And then you terminated those accounts?”Staffer: “That’s right.”YouTube’s mammoth video corpus and flow of new kinds of content present a challenge that simply never ends. Another test is always around the corner, whether it be the 2020 presidential elections or A.I.-generated “deepfake” technology. In the meantime, it’s hard to declare progress, much less victory, when the failures are so notable.Ms. Wojcicki said that seeing harmful videos and the hateful behavior of people online is the worst part of her job. “It’s probably not even rewarding, because everybody is angry at you all the time,” she said. “But I think it’s probably some of the most important work that I will do in my career, because it’s setting a standard of responsibility for the internet.”She has become a pariah among a vocal minority of YouTube enthusiasts who think she has gone too far to alter what made YouTube popular in the first place. When Ms. Wojcicki started her own YouTube channel in fall 2017, her videos were overrun by negative comments, including anti-Semitic remarks and insults about her looks and manner of speaking. Her first post — a slick montage with YouTube stars offering advice on making videos — received five times as many thumbs-down votes as thumbs-up. When YouTube published a year-in-review compilation, which excluded reference to its troubles, it became the most disliked video in the site’s history. Even Ms. Wojcicki’s kids, she said, told her that it was “cringey.”The growing backlash against YouTube has complicated some personal relationships. Marc Benioff, the chairman of Salesforce, said last year that social media was potentially as harmful as cigarettes and needed to be regulated. Ms. Wojcicki has been a Salesforce board director since 2014, and Mr. Benioff is a longtime acquaintance. For this article, YouTube arranged for an interview with Mr. Benioff to provide insight about her. But on the morning of a scheduled call, Mr. Benioff was feuding on Twitter with its C.E.O. about a proposed tax to pay for services for the homeless in San Francisco.He joined the call 40 minutes late, saying he only had five minutes to spare. When I asked how Ms. Wojcicki reacted to his comments about social media, Mr. Benioff became upset. He said he wasn’t “prepared to answer” the question and had expected to speak about her leadership style. Then he ended the call.In a written statement sent a week later, Mr. Benioff said: “We’re living in a crisis of trust, and as I’ve said before that if our industry doesn’t self-regulate, the government will do it for us. But I don’t think that reality fazes someone like Susan because she knows, no matter what, the power of trust and transparency far outweighs whatever regulation that may come our way.”The easiest way to judge a C.E.O.’s performance, of course, is to study their company’s financial results. In the case of YouTube, that’s a matter of guesswork. The company is a few layers deep within Alphabet and its financial results are not disclosed. YouTube reveals data points in drips and drabs, but the numbers are too absent of context to be of much use. On the last earnings call with analysts, for example, Google said that the number of YouTube channels with more than one million subscribers nearly doubled last year, and that the number of creators making more than $10,000 annually grew more than 40 percent. But investors do not know YouTube’s profit or costs, or how Ms. Wojcicki has affected them over time.From what we can glean, though, YouTube’s business appears to be thriving. Alphabet cited its “strong contribution” as a key factor for the company’s record profits in the fourth quarter. Analysts estimate that YouTube’s annual revenue has surpassed $15 billion and is growing at 30 to 40 percent a year.If building a business with Netflix-size revenue inside Alphabet wasn’t enough to gain Ms. Wojcicki job security from YouTube’s policing struggles, there’s also the Larry factor. She technically reports to Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief executive, but she answers to Mr. Page. She remains one of the few people at the company with “walk-in access” to the reclusive co-founder, one Google executive told me. “She is not going anywhere,” this person said.One reason Ms. Wojcicki defies easy characterization is that her core function keeps changing. Today, her job is to be something like the standards czar of an anarchic civilization. Before that, when YouTube started home-growing celebrity icons, she was a budding media mogul. But in whatever role YouTube has needed her to assume, Ms. Wojcicki has not lost sight of the skill she learned early on at Google: how to keep advertisers happy.Marc S. Pritchard, Procter & Gamble’s chief brand officer, who is responsible for one of the biggest advertising budgets in the world, said his company has had some rocky moments with YouTube in the last few years, and that Ms. Wojcicki has been a steadying presence.Like other major marketers, P.&G. stopped spending on YouTube in early 2017 when it found its advertisements running next to videos with violence, extreme language and other consumer-unfriendly qualities. When Mr. Pritchard called Ms. Wojcicki with the bad news, he said, the conversation was not contentious. She told him: “You’re an important partner. We’re going to work together to get this fixed.”Almost a year after P.&G. put its wallet away, the “Tide Pod challenge” started to spread across YouTube. Tide is one of P.&G.’s flagship brands, and Mr. Pritchard said that late one Friday night, Ms. Wojcicki called him with reassurances that her company was on top of the problem. She added a metaphor about the scale of the challenge: YouTube had started out as a small city, but it had grown into a metropolis.“I think you’ve grown well beyond a metropolis,” Mr. Pritchard recalled telling her. “You grew into a galaxy. That has implications beyond anything you would have ever known.” Within a few hours, the worst Tide Pod videos were scrubbed from YouTube, and the platform changed its algorithm so anyone searching for them would be shown a safety video.“No debate, just action,” said Mr. Pritchard. A few months later, P.&G. announced that it would resume advertising on YouTube.Over Presidents’ Day weekend, Ms. Wojcicki was traveling with her family when another ad disaster struck. A YouTuber named Matt Watson posted a video with the title “YouTube is Facilitating the Sexual Exploitation of Children, and It’s Being Monetized.” It demonstrated how pedophiles were coordinating their behavior on the site, including on some videos sponsored by big brands, and those companies started to pull their advertising.Ms. Wojcicki asked her staff to do a “content review” to remove any problematic videos and comments. She coordinated with senior executives and the “incident commander,” a rotating position she had created to ensure that every “escalation” — that’s corporate-speak for “a terrible thing found on our platform” — had a point person overseeing the response. Eventually, YouTube said it removed inappropriate comments from thousands of videos and would disable comments permanently on most content featuring children under 13.Ms. Wojcicki said while the situation was regrettable, it also demonstrated that some of YouTube’s new policies are helping. YouTube was able to turn off comments on millions of videos over a holiday weekend, something it would have struggled to do in the past.A month later, when YouTube’s human reviewers were overwhelmed by a deluge of videos of the mass shooting in New Zealand — at one point, footage of the shooting was being uploaded every second — Ms. Wojcicki said the company intentionally disabled search functions. It also bypassed human reviewers and let its computers immediately take down any videos that were automatically flagged.She said each horrible incident helps the company be better prepared for the next one. And there will always be a next one, as long as YouTube remains open to allowing anyone with an internet connection to upload a video.After a long conversation, Ms. Wojcicki became introspective. She said she joined Google because she wanted to do something meaningful with her life, and saw the company’s mission of helping people find the right information as inspiring. But now she recognizes that her ultimate legacy will be whether YouTube can get a handle on its problems.“I know we can do better, but we’re going to get there. We’ll get to a point where we have solved a lot of these issues, and I feel like we’ve already made significant progress,” she said. “I own this problem, and I’m going to fix it.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the nationality of a gunman suspected of killing 50 people in New Zealand. He is from Australia, not New Zealand.Advertisement"
