0
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. The Saudi crown prince is caught on a U.S. intercept, Jeff Bezos accuses a tabloid company of blackmail and France pulls its ambassador from Italy. Here’s the latest: A U.S. intelligence intercept indicates that Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman considered killing Jamal Khashoggi more than a year before Saudi operatives strangled the dissident journalist at the Saudi Consulate in Istanbul in October, then dismembered his body.In 2017, the crown prince told a top aide that he would use “a bullet” on Mr. Khashoggi if he did not return to the kingdom and stop criticizing it, according to current and former American officials. Details: The conversation appears to have been recently transcribed as part of an effort to find proof of who was responsible for Mr. Khashoggi’s death. The crown prince tells the aide that Mr. Khashoggi, who became a Washington Post columnist around the same time, should be lured back to Saudi Arabia or returned by force, and if that failed, he would go after him “with a bullet.” The C.I.A. has concluded that the crown prince ordered the killing, but President Trump has downplayed the evidence of his role. Another angle: A U.N. human rights investigator has concluded that Saudi Arabia deliberately impeded an investigation of the killing. Mr. Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive and the world’s richest man, said the owner of The National Enquirer had tried “extortion and blackmail” to stop Mr. Bezos from investigating how text messages and photos exposing his extramarital affair were leaked to the tabloid.The allegations: Mr. Bezos said intermediaries for David Pecker, chairman of American Media Inc., which owns The Enquirer, warned that if Mr. Bezos did not cease his inquiries, the company would publish explicit photos it had obtained. Mr. Bezos, the owner of The Washington Post and a critic of President Trump, asserted that A.M.I. had wanted him to stop looking into the matter for political reasons. He pointed to the publisher’s past cooperation with Mr. Trump and its connections to the Saudi government. The evidence: Mr. Bezos released email correspondence in which A.M.I. said it would hold back the compromising photos if Mr. Bezos stopped his investigation and publicly said that he did not think the exposure of his affair had been “influenced by political forces.”Quote: Rather than give in to blackmail, “I prefer to stand up, roll this log over and see what crawls out,” Mr. Bezos wrote in an extraordinary blog post. Prime Minister Theresa May’s talks in Brussels, aimed at reopening the 585-page withdrawal agreement with the E.U., were predictably inconclusive. But the president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, agreed to meet again by the end of the month.Of note: A new report from the Bank of England said that Britain faces its slowest growth in 10 years in 2019, warning of tensions caused by “the fog of Brexit.”Go deeper: If no agreement is reached by March 29, Britain will crash out of the E.U., which experts have said would have disastrous consequences not just for its own economy but for other members of the bloc.Another angle: One talk radio host has taken it on himself to fight Brexit supporters every day. He might not have changed many minds, but his show has made him famous. In the 1990s, a series of private reports and studies found that Roman Catholic nuns were being sexually abused by priests or bishops. But only now is the issue seeing the light of day, after Pope Francis acknowledged the problem this week.Details: In 1994, a multiyear, 23-nation survey found that the sexual abuse of nuns by priests or bishops was rampant in some African countries. In 1998, another report confirmed those findings and said that “even rape of sisters” was common. And the problem has persisted around the world. Why did a reckoning take so long? The abuse of nuns has been overshadowed by other scandals in the Roman Catholic Church, and there have been systematic efforts to silence accusers, Laurie Goodstein, who has covered the church for decades for The Times, said on our podcast “The Daily.”France: In an extraordinary rupture between two increasingly antagonistic founding members of the E.U., France recalled its ambassador to Italy after the Italian deputy prime minister, Luigi Di Maio, a populist leader, met near Paris with a Yellow Vest organizer who has called for French civil war.Russia investigation: Federal prosecutors told a judge that Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, may have lied to them about “an extremely sensitive issue” in hopes of increasing his chances of getting a pardon from the president.Emiliano Sala: The British authorities said the body of the Argentine soccer striker was recovered from the wreckage of a small plane that went down in the English Channel last month.Carlos Ghosn: Renault, the French automaker, said that its former chairman and chief executive, jailed in Tokyo since November, may have used company funds to finance a Marie Antoinette-themed personal party at the Palace of Versailles, and that it had notified France’s judicial authorities.U.S. Supreme Court: The justices blocked, by 5-4, a law that could have left the state of Louisiana with only one abortion provider.Racism: Gucci and Adidas apologized and pulled products that were widely criticized as racist, amid a scandal over blackface that now threatens both Republicans and Democrats in the state of Virginia. We examined the long, disturbing history of blackface in America, which goes back to the dawn of the country’s popular culture. Venezuela: The military blockaded a major highway to prevent opposition leaders from trucking in food and medicine via Colombia.“Green New Deal”: In the U.S., House Democrats introduced a resolution calling for an enormous stimulus package around climate change, which includes a proposal to generate 100 percent of America’s electricity from renewable sources within the next decade. Democrats also made moves to obtain President Trump’s tax returns. Russia: Scorn for former President Boris Yeltsin and his era from the current Kremlin’s cheerleaders has brought edgy appeal to the Boris Yeltsin Presidential Center, a shimmering, contrarian shrine on the border of Siberia. Racing against climate change: A Dutch speedskating race has survived by relocating to Austria, where thick ice still beckons, for now.Children’s screen time: Doctors in Britain advised parents to keep children’s bedrooms and meals screen-free to reduce the negative effects of social media and technology exposure.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Give cauliflower the Buffalo wing treatment.A drugstore, free Wi-Fi and an A.T.M. are essentials when you set foot in a new city.You can reject an online suitor without ghosting. Just assert your disinterest.On Saturday, Boeing’s 747, arguably the most iconic jet ever, celebrates the 50th anniversary of its first flight. Commercial service started within a year.While the jumbo jets are slowly being retired by many airlines in favor of more fuel-efficient planes, the 747 still has at least a few years left in regular passenger service with many international carriers.Nowadays, cost-conscious airlines try to cram as many passengers onto their planes as they can, but competition was different in the heyday of the 747. The goal then was to give passengers space and luxury. American Airlines even put a piano bar in coach.Pilots love to fly “the Queen of the Skies,” and crews feel a special connection to it, according to Joe Kannapell, a retired 747 captain (who happens to be the briefings editor’s brother).“There’s an intimacy and a fraternity aspect that no other fleet ever had,” he said.Zach Wichter wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Jim Rutenberg and Karen WeiseThe richest man on earth accused the nation’s leading supermarket tabloid publisher of “extortion and blackmail” on Thursday, laying out a theory that brought together international intrigue, White House politics, nude photos and amorous text messages.Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon and the owner of The Washington Post, made his accusations against American Media Inc., the company behind The National Enquirer, in a lengthy post on the online platform Medium. Last month, The Enquirer published an exposé of Mr. Bezos’ extramarital affair with Lauren Sanchez, a former host of the Fox show “So You Think You Can Dance.”The headline of Mr. Bezos’ post — “No thank you, Mr. Pecker” — targeted David J. Pecker, the head of the tabloid company. In the sometimes digressive text that followed, he accused American Media of threatening to publish graphic photographs of Mr. Bezos, including a “below-the-belt selfie,” if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not motivated by political concerns.“Well, that got my attention,” Mr. Bezos wrote of the threat. “But not in the way they likely hoped.”The inciting event in this battle of American titans was the Jan. 28 edition of The Enquirer, which hit supermarket racks on Jan. 10, one day after Mr. Bezos and his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie, announced that they would be getting a divorce. The tabloid devoted 11 pages to the story of Mr. Bezos’ affair with Ms. Sanchez, calling it “the biggest investigation in Enquirer history!”[Who Is MacKenzie Bezos? Her divorce has made the novelist, and her private life, a public fascination.]The Enquirer boasted that it had tracked the couple “across five states and 40,000 miles,” furtively observing them as they boarded private jets, rode in limousines and repaired to “five-star hotel hideaways.” The article was illustrated with paparazzi shots of the unwitting couple as they stepped onto a tarmac and arrived together at what the tabloid called “their beachfront love nest in Santa Monica.”The tabloid also published amorous text messages that Mr. Bezos had sent to Ms. Sanchez. “I am crazy about you,” he wrote, according to The Enquirer. “All of you.”Tech executives are not the usual subjects of Enquirer covers, and the story set off speculation in Washington and New York media circles that the tabloid’s aggressive coverage of Mr. Bezos was tied to the closeness of Mr. Pecker, The Enquirer’s chief, and the White House. That alliance came fully to light last year in the legal drama involving hush payments to women alleging affairs with Mr. Trump.[Our media columnist examined the unlikely power of The National Enquirer in December.]Mr. Trump and Mr. Pecker were longtime friends — but the relationship between the two was said to be frayed in recent months, when American Media’s leadership entered into a deal with federal prosecutors looking into the company’s role in the hush payments made during the 2016 presidential campaign. Mr. Pecker and his associates had helped orchestrate the deals involving two women who alleged past affairs with Mr. Trump in “catch and kill” deals: the former Playboy model Karen McDougal and the porn star Stormy Daniels.After The Enquirer made his private life public, giving Twitter wags and late-night hosts the chance to weigh in on his high-flown texting style, Mr. Bezos sprang into action, starting his own investigation of the tabloid’s motives and how it had come to possess his texts to Ms. Sanchez.The Amazon founder, who at last count was worth $136 billion, suggested that he would spare no expense in taking the fight to the tabloid publisher. Leading the investigation was Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ longtime security chief, whom Mr. Bezos said he had instructed “to proceed with whatever budget he needed to pursue the facts in this matter.”It was a bold move for someone who has often tried to evade the spotlight, even amid the frequent insults hurled his way by Mr. Trump, who has labeled the newspaper that Mr. Bezos purchased in 2013 as “The Amazon Post” and recently called him “Jeff Bozo” in a tweet.[Mr. de Becker has advised celebrities on threats for decades.]Mr. de Becker confirmed to The Daily Beast on Jan. 31 that he was leading the investigation into the matter of how the Enquirer had obtained the text messages. Not long afterward, The Post prepared an article exploring competing theories about the motivation behind the publication of the tawdry tale.American Media made the next move, offering Mr. Bezos an offer that it wrongly assumed he could not refuse. And if he did say no? A future issue of The Enquirer would make him very unhappy, with the selfies and more of the steamy texts it had apparently obtained.“Of course I don’t want personal photos published, but I also won’t participate in their well-known practice of blackmail, political favors, political attacks and corruption,” Mr. Bezos wrote. “I prefer to stand up, roll this log over and see what crawls out.”Amazon declined to comment.Mr. Bezos’ allegations placed new pressure on American Media, which narrowly emerged from the campaign finance prosecution without being charged.On Friday morning, the company said in a statement that although it stood by its actions, for now, its board was starting an investigation into the matter.“American Media believes fervently that it acted lawfully in the reporting of the story of Mr. Bezos,” the statement said. “Nonetheless, in light of the nature of the allegations published by Mr. Bezos, the Board has convened and determined that it should promptly and thoroughly investigate the claims. Upon completion of that investigation, the Board will take whatever appropriate action is necessary.”The statement was certain to intensify speculation around the future of Mr. Pecker and his top news executive, Dylan Howard.But American Media is privately held, and its board has been steadfast in its loyalty to Mr. Pecker through the most tumultuous year of his tenure with the company. The board made no statements and took no action to investigate American Media’s role in acting as an arm of Mr. Trump’s campaign, even after the company signed a non-prosecution agreement with the authorities.The board consists of two partners from Chatham Asset Management, a financial backer of the company, and David R. Hughes, the former chief financial officer of Trump Entertainment Resorts.By using Medium to reveal The Enquirer’s backstage maneuvers, Mr. Bezos — one of the world’s most powerful tech titans and the owner of one of the country’s most influential newspapers — showed the best means of communications can be a simple blog post.[Read excerpts from Mr. Bezos’ blog post.]Sometimes rambling — while also showing the occasional flair of tabloid columnists of yore — the Bezos post pulled together random strands of the yearlong legal drama involving the president, American Media and the allegedly illegal payments to women.That federal inquiry resulted in a guilty plea from Mr. Trump’s former attorney and fixer, Michael D. Cohen, who said he had paid Ms. Daniels $130,000 and asked American Media to pay Ms. McDougal $150,000 at the president’s direction, to protect his election prospects.Federal prosecutors with the Southern District of New York determined that the American Media payment was an illegal corporate contribution. Because the company cooperated with prosecutors, the authorities did not bring charges. But they made American Media sign onto a non-prosecution agreement, in which it affirmed that it had made the payment to “influence the election.”That agreement, signed in September, stipulated that A.M.I. “shall commit no crimes whatsoever” for three years, and that if it did, “A.M.I. shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which this office has knowledge.”If American Media’s threat to publish the personal photos of Mr. Bezos is determined to have been criminal, it would find its deal with federal prosecutors in jeopardy.“One thing we can be certain of is these allegations will be looked at hard by the federal prosecutors,” said Jeff Tsai, a former federal prosecutor. “The nature of that non-prosecution agreement — to not commit any crimes — was to give A.M.I. the opportunity to really think hard about the nature of its practices.”He added, “You can sometimes get a pass from federal prosecutors; it’s much harder to get two passes.”The agreement put American Media, Mr. Pecker and Mr. Howard at odds with Mr. Trump, which served to tamp down speculation that the Enquirer had somehow pursued the Bezos story in alliance with the president and his allies.On Feb. 5, though, that possibility surfaced in The Post. Mr. de Becker told the paper that the Enquirer story had begun with a “politically motivated’’ leak. Mr. de Becker has served as a protector to Olivia Newton-John, Michael J. Fox and friends and family of Ronald Reagan. He declined to comment.American Media appeared to warn Mr. Bezos away from raising any political speculation in an email to Mr. de Becker’s attorney, which he shared on Medium. In the letter, which he quoted in full, a lawyer for the company, Jon Fine, demanded that Mr. Bezos state publicly that he had “no knowledge or basis for suggesting that” American Media’s “coverage was politically motivated or influenced by political forces.” Mr. Fine has worked as a lawyer at Amazon.In his post Mr. Bezos also appeared to imply that the tabloid company was doing the bidding of Saudi Arabia, quoting from a New York Times report last year: “After Mr. Trump became president, he rewarded Mr. Pecker’s loyalty with a White House dinner to which the media executive brought a guest with important ties to the royals in Saudi Arabia. At the time, Mr. Pecker was pursuing business there while also hunting for financing for acquisitions.”The Post has been reporting determinedly on intelligence assessments that the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman, ordered the grisly murder of the Saudi dissident — and Post global opinion contributor — Jamal Khashoggi.Follow Jim Rutenberg and Karen Weise on Twitter: @jimrutenberg and @KYWeise.Edmund Lee, Patricia Cohen and Maggie Haberman contributed reporting.OpinionKara SwisherAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a Supreme Court decision on an abortion law, a dispute between Jeff Bezos and the owner of The National Enquirer, and the obituary for Frank Robinson, the first black manager in Major League Baseball.The justices voted 5 to 4 on Thursday to grant a temporary stay on a Louisiana law that opponents said could have left the state with only one authorized abortion provider.Chief Justice John Roberts joined the court’s four-member liberal wing in the majority, highlighting the pivotal position he has assumed after last year’s departure of Justice Anthony Kennedy. Justice Kennedy was often the swing vote in closely divided cases.The details: The Louisiana law requires doctors who perform abortions to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals. A federal court judge struck down the law in 2017, saying it created an undue burden on women’s constitutional right to abortion. That decision was later reversed. What’s next: The court’s action on Thursday did not end the case, and the justices are likely to hear a challenge to the law on the merits in its next term, which starts in October. The court struck down a similar law in Texas in 2016.Related: Lawmakers in several states have recently been working on legislation that either protects abortion or makes it illegal, in the event that a conservative-leaning Supreme Court overturns Roe v. Wade, the 1973 ruling that made abortion legal nationwide.Mr. Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive and the world’s richest man, said on Thursday that the owner of The National Enquirer had tried “extortion and blackmail” to stop him investigating how material exposing his extramarital affair was leaked to the tabloid.In an online post, Mr. Bezos accused American Media Inc. of threatening to publish explicit photos, including a “below the belt selfie,” if he didn’t affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not politically motivated. Mr. Bezos mentioned his ownership of The Washington Post. American Media’s owner, David Pecker, is a friend of President Trump, who has criticized The Post.Catch up: Mr. Bezos and his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie, announced last month that they would be getting a divorce, a day before the tabloid published an 11-page story about his affair with Lauren Sanchez, a TV personality.Excerpts: “If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion, how many people can?” Mr. Bezos wrote. The State Senate’s top Republican faced questions on Thursday about racist photographs and slurs in a college yearbook that he helped oversee, adding a bipartisan angle to the nearly weeklong crisis over the conduct of the state’s top elected officials.The Republican lawmaker, Thomas Norment, pointed out that he did not take or appear in any of the images of students in blackface in the 1968 yearbook. Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark Herring, both Democrats, have admitted wearing blackface in the 1980s.Separately, several prominent Democrats called for an investigation into a woman’s accusation that Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax had sexually assaulted her in 2004.Go deeper: The controversy has reinforced that blackface, with its roots in demeaning minstrel-show traditions that date to the 1830s, has never gone away.The Daily: On today’s episode, we discuss how the situation in Virginia is testing Democrats’ policy of zero tolerance for misconduct by members of their party.Mohammed bin Salman, the crown prince of Saudi Arabia, spoke about killing Jamal Khashoggi long before he was strangled and dismembered by Saudi agents in October, in a conversation intercepted by U.S. intelligence agencies.Prince Mohammed told an aide in September 2017 that he would go after Mr. Khashoggi “with a bullet” if the columnist for The Washington Post didn’t return to the kingdom and end his criticism of the Saudi government.Why it matters: The Saudi government has denied that Prince Mohammed, the de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia, played any role in the killing. He has also been defended by President Trump.The first surfing contest to offer equal cash prizes for men and women took place in November at a spot called Jaws, off the Hawaiian island of Maui, where in the right conditions the waves can run 40 or 50 feet, or higher. This is the story of how women broke into big-wave surfing, one of the most dangerous sports in the world, and their battles to win access to the top echelon of competition. Deadly fire in Brazil: At least 10 people were killed today in a fire at a dormitory for young players at a training center for a professional soccer team in Rio de Janeiro, firefighters and club officials said.“Green New Deal”: House Democrats on Thursday introduced a sweeping resolution calling for the U.S. to eliminate additional carbon emissions by 2030. But Speaker Nancy Pelosi has no plans to bring it to a vote in its current form.Bank merger: A $28 billion deal between BB&T and SunTrust would, if approved, be the industry’s biggest merger in a decade, creating the sixth-largest bank in the U.S.Justice Dept. leader to testify: The acting attorney general, Matthew Whitaker, is scheduled to appear before a House panel today to discuss the special counsel’s Russia investigation after receiving an assurance that he would not be subpoenaed.Strains in Europe: France recalled its ambassador from Rome after an Italian official met with a leader of the “Yellow Vest” protests against the French government.Snapshot: Above, a dog backstage at the 16th annual New York Pet Fashion Show on Thursday.In memoriam: Frank Robinson, a Hall of Fame outfielder, became the first black manager in Major League Baseball, in 1975. He died on Thursday at 83.John Dingell, a Michigan Democrat, served in Congress for a record 59 years. He died on Thursday at 92.Grammys on Sunday: The musical awards show has made a series of changes in the past year to address a lack of diversity. But there is no guarantee that new nominees will win — or that big names will show up.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Late-night comedy: President Trump has said that Democrats’ investigations are “presidential harassment.” “Yes, presidential harassment,” Stephen Colbert said. “It’s like sexual harassment, only Republicans take it seriously.”What we’re reading: This essay, published by the Modern War Institute at West Point. Lauren Katzenberg, our At War editor, says, “An Army captain, Micah Ables, makes the case for why servicewomen are needed in combat units in a thoughtful rebuttal to a Wall Street Journal op-ed that argued against Obama-era gender integration policies.”Cook: Give cauliflower the Buffalo wing treatment.Watch: “If Beale Street Could Talk” and then see how it shows a New York City that no longer exists.See: In the Coachella Valley, visit the Desert X exhibition, which has various installations, including a drive-in movie theater screening only one film.Read: Un-su Kim’s “The Plotters,” about a Korean assassin, is one of nine new books we recommend this week. Smarter Living: When buying off-season produce, be skeptical of anything that’s perishable but super fresh. While transportation accounts for only about 6 percent of the world’s food-related greenhouse gas emissions, not all modes of travel are equal. Anything moved by air, like fresh blackberries or asparagus from South America, is going to create a lot of carbon.Also, you can reject an online suitor without ghosting. Just assert that you’re not interested.On Saturday, the Boeing 747, perhaps the world’s most recognizable jet, celebrates the 50th anniversary of its first flight. Commercial service started within a year.While the jumbo jets are slowly being retired by many airlines in favor of more fuel-efficient planes, the 747 still has at least a few years left in regular passenger service with many international carriers.Nowadays, cost-conscious airlines try to cram as many passengers into their planes as they can, but competition was different in the heyday of the 747. The goal then was to give passengers space and luxury. American Airlines even put a piano bar in coach.Pilots love to fly “the Queen of the Skies,” and crews feel a special connection to it, according to Joe Kannapell, a retired 747 captain (who happens to be the briefings editor’s brother).“There’s an intimacy and a fraternity aspect that no other fleet ever had,” he said.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Zach Wichter wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the leadership crisis in Virginia.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Nickname for mom’s sister (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Last year, The Times added 120 newsroom employees, bringing its total number of journalists to 1,600, the largest count in its history.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump met China’s special envoy at the White House.Before the meeting, above, Mr. Trump said that the two countries were headed toward an agreement that might be “the biggest deal ever made.” There had also been hints that a summit meeting would be announced between Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China. None was.The talks are expected to continue for weeks.And separately, a day after a Times report revealed frustrations from some investigators who have said the attorney general failed to adequately portray their findings, the department defended William Barr’s handling of the special counsel’s report, saying that it had to be scrubbed of sensitive information._____2. President Trump made a jab at Joe Biden for putting his hands on women’s shoulders.The 15-second meme, accompanied by the text “WELCOME BACK JOE!,” doctored the video Mr. Biden released, explaining his history of physical contact with women. (By the way, there’s science behind the idea of personal space.)In other news from Washington, the House defied the National Rifle Association and passed a domestic violence bill that could block gun sales to abusive intimate partners.Lawmakers also voted to end U.S. military aid for Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen. President Trump is expected to veto the measure._____3. Boeing has insisted that the policies for responding to trouble in the 737 Max 8 were sound, but a preliminary report by Ethiopian investigators raises new questions.The report shows that pilots on a doomed Ethiopian Airlines jet followed Boeing’s safety protocol, to no avail. Above, the cockpit of a 737 Max 8.Trouble started just two minutes after takeoff. The pilots performed actions on the emergency checklist, including cutting off electricity to an automatic system that was pushing the nose down. But four minutes later, the plane went into a fatal dive that killed all 157 people onboard._____4. Looking ahead to Friday’s jobs report:American manufacturers have added nearly half a million jobs since President Trump took office. Now, the surge may be nearing its end. Above, the assembly area at Gradall Industries in New Philadelphia, Ohio.Tariffs are driving up manufacturing costs; cooling growth in China and Europe is hurting demand for exports; and the effects of tax cuts and government spending increases are waning.Meanwhile, U.S. builders and farmers are only getting more short-handed. One of our economics reporters breaks down the strains of what could be an enduring labor crunch because of a drought of immigrant labor, and another examines whether targeted immigration might be a solution._____5. Emotions are running high among Mormons.The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, whose Salt Lake Temple is pictured above, now says it will allow children of same-sex parents to be baptized, a stunning reversal of church doctrine.“It felt so incongruous with the teachings of Jesus,” said one mother who cried in relief. “He said, Let the children come unto me, and forbid them not.”In addition to the church’s reversal on important religious practices like baptisms, it will also no longer label those in same-sex marriages as apostates._____6. The Australian man accused of carrying out the terrorist attack in Christchurch, New Zealand, will be charged with 50 counts of murder in a court appearance within hours of this writing.A Times analysis shows that attacks by white supremacists are increasing, and so are the connections between them. We found that perpetrators of the deadliest attacks engaged with extremist content online, and many of the attacks, like those at two mosques last month, above, were inspired by earlier attacks.That’s not the only extremism on the rise: Anti-Semitism is, too, in a range of ideologies that normally don’t overlap. That fusion is new, and dangerous, experts say._____7. The divorce plans of the richest man in the world have been finalized.Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, will keep 75 percent of the couple’s stock in Amazon and all of their ownership of The Washington Post and the Blue Origin space company.After the divorce, Mackenzie Bezos, pictured above with her soon-to-be-ex in 2017, will own roughly 4 percent of Amazon, a stake worth almost $36 billion. Mr. Bezos will have “sole voting authority” over her shares. Ms. Bezos, who has long kept a low profile, wrote on Twitter that she was “excited about my own plans.”_____8. When was the last time you read a book from Poland, Sweden, Mexico or Iraq?Our Globetrotting column, a preview of books from around the world, has been updated with 76 new titles to our already growing list of 189 books. We also have a profile of the British-Palestinian writer Isabella Hammad, whose debut novel, “The Parisian,” gives a sweeping history of the 20th century through the lens of Palestinians.And our reviewer found “Solitary” by Albert Woodfox, who survived more than 40 years in solitary confinement, to be a remarkable testament of suffering and self-transformation._____9. A hairbrush against the scalp. Peeling dried glue. The television painter Bob Ross.All have given rise to autonomous sensory meridian response, better known as A.S.M.R. and sometimes described as a brain-gasm. The brain-tingling feeling was a hard-to-describe psychological oddity. Until, suddenly, it was a YouTube phenomenon.FYI, the science behind the sensation is lagging._____10. Finally, a breakout from whale jail.Russia is preparing to release an unprecedented number of whales, seized to keep them from being exported to Chinese marine parks. A hundred have been kept in watery pens until the plan for their release could be developed.It took the help of two famous ocean experts, Jean-Michel Cousteau (the son of the famed oceanographer) and Charles Vinick.“Each animal is an individual and has to be treated like an individual,” said Mr. Vinick. “Like us!” said Mr. Cousteau.Have a liberating evening._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, predatory lenders get a boost, and President Trump won’t meet with his counterpart in China — yet.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Are you a Valentine’s Day person? If not, welcome to a growing club of detractors. Only 51 percent of Americans plan to celebrate the “holiday” in 2019, according to the National Retail Federation, marking a 12-year downward trend. But if you are an observer, how nice — for your loved ones. Retailers are expecting you to spend a record amount on presents this season (an average of $161.96, up 13 percent from 2018). At least you die-hard romantics are making up for the rest of us. Speaking of gifts, here’s mine to you: All you need to know about the latest business and tech news, gathered into one email that’ll set you up for the week ahead. Chocolates sold separately.FEB. 3-9Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive and the wealthiest man in the world, accused the owner of The National Enquirer on Thursday of attempting to extort and blackmail him by using racy photos that Mr. Bezos had texted with his girlfriend, the former television host Lauren Sanchez. In a candid blog post, Mr. Bezos pasted emails from the tabloid’s representatives who threatened to release the images if he did not stop investigating how they had obtained his texts. “Of course I don’t want personal photos published, but I also won’t participate in their well-known practice of blackmail, political favors, political attacks and corruption,” Mr. Bezos wrote. If you’ve ever considered going into crippling debt, the government just made it easier to do so. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau said on Wednesday that it planned to eliminate Obama-era rules that protect consumers from taking on bigger loans than they can handle. Under the proposal, lenders would be able to grant high-interest payday loans (short-term loans intended to tide people over until their next paycheck) without making sure consumers can actually pay them off. And those lenders would be allowed to do so repeatedly, contributing to a cycle where borrowers spin into ballooning debt. The agency said its policy would give people more access to credit. But critics say it will help predatory lenders take advantage of people who already can’t make ends meet. It’s not just your imagination — the past five years have been the hottest on record in Earth’s history, according to data from NASA. The report set the stage for liberal Democrats to unveil their Green New Deal on Thursday, a proposal for sweeping changes that would make the United States carbon neutral by 2030 and create millions of “green jobs” in the process. The measure was drafted by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts, and it won’t go anywhere for now — Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California has no plans to bring it for a vote. Either way, it’s a bold rallying cry, and may gain steam going into the 2020 elections. FEB. 10-16As the economy recovers from the government’s longest shutdown in history (and will be recuperating for some time), Congress is working to prevent another one starting after midnight on Friday. That’s the deadline for Mr. Trump to strike an agreement with lawmakers on a new spending bill that will keep the lights on at federal agencies. Mr. Trump continues to insist on funding for a border wall, but is showing some signs of willingness to compromise. Speaker Pelosi says she’s aiming for “good news in a short period of time.” Are you sick of hearing about the costly trade dispute between the United States and China? Me, too. But this week could be the beginning of the end of it — or, at least Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin seems to hope so. He’s traveling to Beijing with other American officials to continue talks that started in Washington in January. If the two sides can’t hammer out a resolution before March 2, the Trump administration will raise punishing tariffs on Chinese goods, hurting businesses and consumers in both countries (and others). For his own part, Mr. Trump said it was unlikely that he would sit down with President Xi Jinping of China before the deadline. The monetary repercussions of Britain’s chaotic withdrawal from the European Union keep piling up. Last year, the country experienced its slowest economic growth in a decade, according to a new report from the Bank of England that, predictably, attributed the slump to the “fog of Brexit.” Those clouds will probably stick around this week as Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain continues her dogged efforts to patch up the tattered proposal. European leaders said they wouldn’t renegotiate the deal, but now they’re vaguely open to “talks.” Of course, the major sticking point — the border between the Irelands — remains part of the plan, so you can guess how those discussions will go. Data from pharmacies in different neighborhoods shows that rich people buy different prescription drugs than poor ones. Apple has fixed the glitch that allowed people to eavesdrop on each other’s FaceTime calls and thanked the 14-year-old who discovered it by offering to pay for his education. Instacart, which offers delivery services through an app, backed off its policy to count customers’ tips toward its workers’ minimum wages — a victory for members of the gig economy. And finally, Carlos Ghosn, the disgraced former chairman of the automaker Renault, may have spent 50,000 euros (about $57,000) on his own lavish wedding at the Palace of Versailles in 2016. You’ve got to hand it to him — it looks like a great party.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Edmund LeeJeff Bezos says owning The Washington Post is a “complexifier” for him. The newspaper could say the same about him.The paper has flourished under Mr. Bezos’ ownership. Since he bought the newspaper in 2013 for $250 million, The Post has added over 200 people to its newsroom, which now numbers 900 journalists, and won plaudits and awards for its coverage of, among other subjects, the Trump administration. The paper has more than 1.5 million digital subscribers, and the business has been profitable for the past three years.But the newsroom entered tricky editorial terrain last week when it became a factor in an apparent extortion attempt against Mr. Bezos, while also having to independently cover the events around its owner.The drama featured a litany of classic tabloid elements that would challenge any newsroom — a marriage-busting affair documented by The National Enquirer, Hollywood agents with ties to political figures, secret rendezvous at high-end hotels and sexting — let alone one whose owner sits at the center of the controversy.It was also a stark reminder that Mr. Bezos is a very public figure of great wealth and influence. He is the world’s richest person by dint of his command of Amazon, a company that is reaching further and further into the lives of everyday people, whether through its e-commerce business, its entertainment properties or its numerous warehouses around the country that employ hundreds of thousands.His personal project, Blue Origin, describes its mission as “building a road to space so our children can build the future.”With his blog post detailing his extortion allegations last week, Mr. Bezos has now also become a prominent commentator on the First Amendment. He said he was fighting back against alleged tactics that have no business in journalism, while The Enquirer claims he is merely trying to muzzle a publication because its coverage embarrassed him.The editorial page of The Post clearly sides with its owner. On Friday, the day after Mr. Bezos published his blog post, the paper published an editorial praising him for exposing an “insidious model of intimidation and corruption masquerading as journalism.”The overall situation will “test both Marty Baron and Jeff Bezos,” Kyle Pope, the editor and publisher of The Columbia Journalism Review, said in an email, referring to The Post’s executive editor. Mr. Bezos gets “good marks so far,” Mr. Pope said, but “the truth is that the rules of journalism are not baked into his bones; it’s something he’s going to have to learn, at a very stressful and trying time.”Mr. Bezos did not respond to a request for comment.The Washington Post declined to make Mr. Baron available for an interview but the paper did provide a statement from him.“Jeff has never gotten involved in our reporting or our final stories,” he said. “People surmise that it must be difficult to cover Jeff and Amazon. But we’ve gone five and a half years with his ownership, and he hasn’t once intervened in any way.”The clash between Mr. Bezos and The Enquirer began last month when the tabloid published an exposé of his extramarital affair with the television personality Lauren Sanchez. Mr. Bezos fought back in his remarkably revealing blog post on Medium, the online open platform. He accused David J. Pecker, the chairman of The Enquirer’s parent company, American Media Inc., of threatening through intermediaries to publish graphic photographs of Mr. Bezos if he did not publicly announce that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not politically motivated.The Post has traditionally focused on the nation’s capital, with not as many resources devoted to business coverage. That has started to change. The Post had previously said it would nearly double the number of journalists devoted to covering Silicon Valley to 25, including a reporter in Seattle who will focus on Amazon.It also aggressively followed up on the revelation about Mr. Bezos’ private life.The Post published a lengthy article on Feb. 5 about The Enquirer’s coverage of Mr. Bezos’ affair. It quoted Gavin de Becker, his longtime security chief, as saying the leak of evidence of Mr. Bezos’ infidelity to The Enquirer was “politically motivated,” designed to embarrass Mr. Bezos because he owns The Post. Mr. de Becker added that the effort could also involve figures from President Trump’s campaign.Emails from American Media that Mr. Bezos included in his blog post referred to the Post article and demanded that he — and the newspaper — refrain from any statements or suggestions that politics played any part in its coverage of his affair with Ms. Sanchez.Like other newspapers, including The New York Times, The Post ran front-page articles on Mr. Bezos and American Media on Friday and Saturday. Those were not the only articles about his interests. The paper also published a report about Amazon’s potentially pulling out of its agreement to build a headquarters in New York City, as well as one about a lawsuit filed against Amazon by the director Woody Allen, who said its streaming service had improperly backed out of a four-movie deal with him.“I think they’ve finally woken up to the fact that their owner is a huge story,” said Mr. Pope, who has criticized the paper’s past coverage of Amazon as anemic. With the fight between Mr. Bezos and American Media, he said, “they’ve moved into an appropriately higher gear.”Mr. Baron said the paper had not changed its approach to its coverage of Mr. Bezos or his business interests. Mr. Baron has said that he, along with other executives, talks with Mr. Bezos about “strategy” every two weeks or so, but that the discussions do not touch on the paper’s coverage. Mr. Bezos owns The Post separately from Amazon.“Because I know full well that he won’t interfere, it’s not really difficult to cover him and Amazon at all,” Mr. Baron said in his statement. “In all the years of his ownership, there hasn’t been one report of his exerting influence, explicitly or implicitly, on our coverage.”Frederick J. Ryan Jr., the publisher and chief executive of The Post, echoed those sentiments in a statement, and said Mr. Bezos had played no part in the editorial that praised his blog post.“Jeff has always made it clear that he expects The Washington Post will act with complete independence, both in our news coverage and editorials, and treat him and his companies just as we would anyone else,” Mr. Ryan wrote. “We have never wavered from that position.”Donald Graham, whose family had owned The Post for almost 80 years before he sold it to Mr. Bezos, said he was “delighted” by the editorial. “I agree with every word of it,"" he said in an email.He added, “Had they not editorialized, perhaps The Times would be doing a piece about the absence of such an editorial and what did that mean?”Bill Grueskin, a Columbia University journalism professor and a former editor at The Wall Street Journal, said it should have been made clearer to readers that Mr. Bezos had nothing to do with the editorial.“Readers deserve to know whether Bezos knew about the editorial in advance, or in any way contributed to discussions that led to it,” he said.To show that the newspaper remains independent of its owner, The Post pointed to another editorial, from early last year. That editorial warned that cities should “proceed with caution, with their eyes at least as wide open as their wallets,” when bidding to be a location for Amazon’s second headquarters.That has now become a major hometown story. Amazon recently announced that it would build a headquarters in nearby Arlington, Va., meaning it will be one of the largest employers in the region.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Jim Rutenberg, Karen Weise and William K. RashbaumJeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon and the owner of The Washington Post, did not become the world’s richest man by refusing to do what it takes to win. And now that he finds himself in a mud fight with the supermarket tabloid that exposed his extramarital affair, he is showing off the same drive that helped him turn a simple idea — selling books on the internet — into an all-purpose, $780 billion powerhouse.Mr. Bezos has risked significant personal embarrassment in taking on American Media Inc., the company that owns The National Enquirer, which last month devoted 11 pages to the tale of his extramarital affair. But with a personal fortune of more than $130 billion, he has the means to torment his tormentors. And as he showed Thursday with his surprise blog post, which accused the tabloid publisher of “extortion and blackmail,” Mr. Bezos is willing to get dirty in the pursuit of victory.He has attacked American Media right where it hurts — its shaky legal position — and the strategy is showing early signs of paying off.Federal prosecutors are reviewing Mr. Bezos’ claim that he has been extorted, according to two people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to discuss it publicly. And those prosecutors have planned a meeting with Mr. Bezos’ representatives, one of those people said.If American Media is found to have broken a law — any law — it would be in violation of a deal with federal prosecutors from the Southern District of New York. The agreement was struck in September after American Media admitted paying hush money during the 2016 presidential campaign to protect Donald J. Trump from allegations of an affair. Under the deal, the company would not be prosecuted for its Trump-related efforts as long as it stayed out of legal trouble for the next three years.Even as American Media fell into legal jeopardy last year, its board stood by the company’s chairman, David J. Pecker, and its top news executive, Dylan Howard. On Friday, however, the company announced that the board was starting an investigation of Mr. Bezos’ claims.“American Media believes fervently that it acted lawfully in the reporting of the story of Mr. Bezos,” the company said in a statement. “Nonetheless, in light of the nature of the allegations published by Mr. Bezos, the board has convened and determined that it should promptly and thoroughly investigate the claims. Upon completion of that investigation, the board will take whatever appropriate action is necessary.”[Read a primer on the players and plot points in the fight that has erupted between Mr. Bezos and American Media.]The Enquirer exposé detailed Mr. Bezos’ affair with Lauren Sanchez, a former host of the Fox show “So You Think You Can Dance.” It appeared a day after Mr. Bezos announced on Twitter that he and his wife of 25 years, the novelist MacKenzie Bezos, were getting divorced.Mr. Bezos wrote the blog post himself, according to one person close to him, who was not authorized to speak publicly, and several lawyers reviewed it before he hit publish. In the post, he said American Media had threatened to publish compromising photographs of him, including a “below the belt selfie,” if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair with Ms. Sanchez was not motivated by political concerns.“If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion, how many people can?” he wrote.At 55, Mr. Bezos has become a prominent player in Hollywood and Washington. Thanks to Amazon’s entry into the entertainment business, he is no stranger to the red carpet and Golden Globes after-parties. And with a 27,000-square-foot mansion in the capital’s Kalorama neighborhood, which he bought for $23 million three years after he acquired The Post in 2013, he is a figure to be reckoned in political circles, albeit one who suffers name calling from the president’s Twitter account.Now, in his fight, Mr. Bezos has assembled an all-star crisis-management team of protectors and lawyers who have popped up alongside powerful political figures and celebrities over the last few decades.A key team member is the veteran Hollywood lawyer Martin Singer, who is technically representing Mr. Bezos’ longtime security chief, Gavin de Becker. Mr. Singer knows exactly how American Media works, and he has not always worked on the virtuous side of the street.This is the lawyer who represented Bill Cosby in 2005, when The Enquirer was preparing an article about sexual assault allegations made against Mr. Cosby by a member of Temple University’s athletics staff, Andrea Constand. Mr. Singer persuaded the tabloid to sit on Ms. Constand’s story in return for an exclusive interview with the former prime-time star. And now he is Team Bezos.Also working on behalf of the Amazon founder is the law firm Boies Schiller Flexner. It has long represented Amazon in corporate matters, but now lawyers there are working for Mr. Bezos personally.One of them, Jonathan Sherman, previously represented American Media as it worked to squash negative stories about President Trump, according to a person familiar with the situation. Another working for Mr. Bezos, William Isaacson, represents Amazon in its corporate matters.David Boies, a partner at the firm, defended the producer Harvey Weinstein against accusations of sexual harassment and abuse. As part of his services, he helped orchestrate a smear campaign against the alleged victims of the mogul’s sexual misconduct and hired Black Cube, a private investigations firm staffed by former Israeli intelligence agents, to undercut accusers and the journalists looking into Mr. Weinstein.Another team member is Mr. de Becker, who has thwarted stalkers for stars like Olivia Newton-John and Cher and provided security for public figures visiting President Ronald Reagan and his family at the White House.Mr. de Becker is also the author of “The Gift of Fear,” a 1998 book that offers advice for dealing with threats (available on Amazon in paperback for $7.19). Concerning blackmail attempts specifically, he counseled confrontation, rather than appeasement — and it seems that Mr. Bezos followed the de Becker strategy with his blog post.“Victims often try to appease the extortionist, but these efforts just allow him to retain the underserved mantle of a decent person,” Mr. de Becker wrote. “I suggest that clients compel the extortionist to commit to his sleaziness, which puts him on the defensive.”In fighting back, Mr. Bezos is showing himself to be not unlike his no-holds-barred antagonist in the White House. And his media counteroffensive against the tabloid publisher has all the hallmarks of the opposition research campaigns that spice up election seasons.Before and after Mr. Bezos published his revealing post on the online platform Medium, various media outlets gave significant space to competing and sometimes contradictory claims about the possible motives behind American Media’s big story. All of those theories had little to do with the idea that salacious details about the private life of a famous multibillionaire would be of interest to checkout-stand impulse buyers.In an article late last month, The Daily Beast quoted Mr. de Becker as confirming that his team was looking into Michael Sanchez, the brother of Ms. Sanchez, as the potential leaker of private text messages The Enquirer published in its exposé. Mr. Sanchez denied it. As the piece noted, he is close with the Trump adviser and longtime provocateur Roger Stone, who has been indicted by the special counsel Robert S. Mueller III.Then there was Mr. Bezos’ suggestion in his Medium post that the coverage was somehow tied to American Media’s attempts to win business and possibly investment from Saudi Arabia. Mr. Bezos and his investigators had failed to offer any solid evidence for that theory — or, for that matter, any of the others.In October, American Media paid for and produced a magazine called The New Kingdom, which mysteriously appeared on newsstands ahead of a visit to the United States by the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman. The publication of this 100-page glossy, filled with laudatory text and splashy photos of the crown prince, coincided with American Media’s efforts to strike business deals in Saudi Arabia. The company has faced double-digit losses in its print circulation in recent years.Mr. Bezos has long played hardball in his business, and Amazon can wipe value off entire companies just by announcing new ventures in their industry. Only recently did Amazon start turning a consistent profit.Mr. Bezos’ aggressive stance plays out in the company’s actions in ways big and small. Last decade, a start-up called Diapers.com began gaining traction by offering free shipping to new parents. Amazon aggressively lowered its prices, undercutting the upstart.Amid the price war, it bought the company for $545 million in late 2010 and shut the site down in 2017. Amazon now captures 67 percent of all baby-related purchases online, according to the marketing analytics firm Jumpshot.Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this article misstated the surname of the crown prince of Saudi Arabia. He is Mohammed bin Salman, not Salmans.Ben Protess contributed reporting.OpinionMaureen DowdOpinionKara SwisherAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Laura M. HolsonThe Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and the novelist MacKenzie Bezos announced on Twitter on Wednesday that they are getting divorced after 25 years of marriage.In a statement posted on Mr. Bezos’s Twitter account, the couple said they had been separated for a long period of time, but planned to remain involved as “parents, friends, partners in ventures and projects.” According to a 1999 profile in Wired, the two met when they both worked at D.E. Shaw, a New York-based hedge fund, before moving in 1994 to Seattle, where Amazon is headquartered. They have four children.pic.twitter.com/Gb10BDb0x0As is the case in any celebrity split, the financial details of the divorce are sure to be complicated despite the couple’s vow to “remain cherished friends.” According to Forbes, which publishes an annual list of billionaires, his net worth is estimated at $137 billion and he is the richest man in the world. While much of his wealth is tied up in Amazon stock, Mr. Bezos, 54, the company’s chief executive, is also the owner of several companies, including The Washington Post and Blue Origin, a space travel company. In September, the couple pledged to donate $2 billion to start preschools and help homeless families.Ms. Bezos, 48, has written two books. In 2005, she published “The Testing of Luther Albright: A Novel,” a psychological thriller set in Sacramento, Calif. The New York Times called it a “quietly absorbing first novel.” Her second book, “Traps,” is a tale of four women who meet on a road trip to Las Vegas.In a 2013 interview in Vogue to promote “Traps,” Ms. Bezos said she met her husband when she interviewed for a job at D.E. Shaw as a research associate in 1992. After being hired, she sat in an office next to his. Ms. Bezos grew up in San Francisco and attended Princeton University, where she was an assistant to the novelist Toni Morrison. Ms. Bezos told Vogue that she asked Mr. Bezos to lunch and that within three months, they were engaged. They married in 1993.Mr. Bezos, who spent summers working at his grandfather’s cattle ranch in Texas, also went to Princeton, where he studied computer science. He described his younger self in the Wired profile as a “professional dater” who had set up a systemic approach to dating modeled after the criteria investment bankers used to analyze deals. (He added then it did not work.)Mr. Bezos later told Vogue, “I think my wife is resourceful, smart, brainy, and hot, but I had the good fortune of having seen her résumé before I met her, so I knew exactly what her SATs were.”The couple lived in a one-bedroom rental in downtown Seattle until 1999, when Wired reported the couple moved into a $10 million mansion in suburban Lake Washington. Mr. Bezos now owns several properties, including a mansion in Washington, D.C.Amazon shares, which closed Tuesday at $1,656, dropped early on news of the divorce but rebounded by noon.Advertisement"
" Advertisement

      Compiled by MICHAEL GONCHAR

FEB. 12, 2019

Above is an image related to one of the news stories we followed this past week. Do you know what it shows? At the bottom of this quiz, you’ll find the answer.Have you been paying attention to the news recently? See how many of these 10 questions you can get right.On the night of Feb. 11, House and Senate negotiators agreed in principle to provide $1.375 billion for fencing and other physical barriers at the Mexican border, part of a broader agreement that would stave off another  without funding President Trump’s wall.committee hearingfilibusterhike in the deficitpartial government shutdown  won for song of the year, and Michelle Obama made a surprise appearance as Alicia Keys hosted the 61st annual Grammy Awards.Ariana Grande’s “Thank U, Next”Childish Gambino’s “This Is America”Ella Mai’s “Boo’d Up”Travis Scott’s “Sicko Mode”In his second State of the Union address, President Trump delivered a message of bipartisan unity on Feb. 5, but signaled that he would continue to wage war for the  that have polarized the capital and the nation.common-sense criminal justice reformshard-line immigration policiesmajor infrastructure plansopioid epidemic emergency measuresThe House Intelligence Committee on Feb. 6 began a broad inquiry into whether , acting only hours after a defiant Speaker Nancy Pelosi declared that the House would not be cowed by the president’s “all-out threat” to drop its investigations of his administration.President Trump tried to cover up his administration’s involvement in a break-in by five men at the Democratic National Committee headquarters in WashingtonNBC was in discussions with President Trump to host a new adaptation of “The Apprentice” after his first term in office endsPresident Trump was born in the United StatesRussia and other foreign powers may be exercising influence over President Trump finished third on Feb. 10 in the final race of her career, in Sweden. The 34-year-old American skier won an unprecedented 20 season-long World Cup discipline and overall titles from 2008 to 2016, as well as three Olympic medals.Chloe KimKelly ClarkLindsey VonnMikaela ShiffrinJustin E. Fairfax’s refusal to resign as lieutenant governor of  in the face of two allegations of sexual assault has presented Democrats with an excruciating choice: whether to impeach an African-American leader at a moment when the state’s other two top leaders, both white, are resisting calls to quit after admitting to racist conduct.MissouriRhode IslandTexasVirginiaAmy Klobuchar, the third-term Minnesota senator, entered the race for the Democratic presidential nomination on Feb. 10, making her the fifth  currently serving in Congress to announce her candidacy.MidwesternermillennialveteranwomanThe Supreme Court on Feb. 7 blocked a Louisiana law that its opponents say could have left the state with .no toll-free interstate highways  only one doctor in a single clinic authorized to provide abortionsseven highly segregated school districts and no plan to remedy the situationtap water that would not have met federal clean water requirementsJeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon and the owner of The Washington Post, accused  of “extortion and blackmail” on Feb. 7, laying out a theory that brought together international intrigue, White House politics, nude photos and amorous text messages.Fox Newsthe government of Saudi ArabiaThe New York Timesthe publisher of The National EnquirerThree of the health-related articles below were recently published in The New York Times. One is from the satirical site The Onion. Which is the fake news story?“A.I. Shows Promise as a Physician Assistant”“Key West Bans Sunscreen Containing Chemicals Believed to Harm Coral Reefs”“Screen Use at Bedtime May Impair Children’s Quality of Life”“Study Finds Average American Gets Most Physical Exertion Waving Cell Phone Around To Get Signal”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew HaagJeff Bezos, the world’s wealthiest person, revealed in a sensational blog post on Thursday that he believed he was the victim of “extortion and blackmail” by the company behind The National Enquirer. He accused the company, American Media Inc., of threatening to release graphic photos of him.[Read more on the Amazon founder’s accusation and the fallout.]Legal definitions aside, there is a foolproof definition for blackmail and extortion, according to William N. Nettles, the United States attorney in South Carolina from 2010 to 2016.“They are like fancy bullying,” Mr. Nettles said.Extortion and blackmail are similar concepts with overlapping definitions. “They are very, very similar,” Mr. Nettles said. “You could say that blackmail is a specific subset of extortion.”With extortion, a person makes a threat, often physical or destructive, to obtain something or to force someone to do something. The textbook example is the mafia warning: Pay me money or I will hurt you. In 2004, an underboss of the Gambino crime family was charged and later convicted in an extortion scheme that involved a Connecticut nightclub owner paying the family for “protection.”With blackmail, a person threatens to reveal embarrassing or damaging information if a demand is not met. That demand can be for money or something else of value. In 1792, Alexander Hamilton paid $1,000 to the husband of a woman he was having an affair with, after the man threatened to reveal the relationship. While Hamilton paid the initial amount, he ignored subsequent demands.The word “extort” dates to Middle English, from the Latin word meaning to twist. Blackmail first surfaced in Scotland in the 1500s, sometimes rendered “black meal,” to describe a payment farmers and property owners would give plunderers to avoid having their land damaged. The word became a combination of black money (“black”) and rent (“meal”).In early Scottish law, both sides of a blackmail scheme were considered criminals, even those we would now consider victims. “The reason the givers are liable is because they maintain the thieves,” according to “The Laws and Customes of Scotland,” published in the 17th century.In the United States, the federal government and all 50 states have criminal statutes covering extortion and blackmail. Such cases can become federal crimes if they involve “interstate commerce,” which can be as simple as emailing a threat from one state to another.Extortion cases appear all over the world. In China, government officials have been targeted, receiving photos of their sordid behavior in the mail with a threat that the images will go public if money is not paid. There have been high-profile schemes in the United States, including one targeting David Letterman, the former host of “The Late Show” on CBS.Like Mr. Bezos, he went public with the scheme without capitulating to the demands. Mr. Letterman told his audience during a show in October 2009 that a man, later identified as a CBS producer, wanted $2 million to not reveal publicly that Mr. Letterman had been in sexual relationships with women who worked on his show. The producer, Robert Halderman, pleaded guilty to larceny, a charge that covers blackmail in New York.“There is definitely a prima facie case to be made that Jeff Bezos was being extorted by National Enquirer,” said Mr. Nettles, the former United States attorney.Mr. Nettles said that Mr. Bezos must have viewed the actions by The Enquirer and its parent company as a threat. “Jeff Bezos exposed himself by doing this,” he said.He added: “What he did was, he took the sting out of the pictures. Secondly, he called them out for what they are — bullies.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseBy James B. StewartJeff Bezos and his wife, MacKenzie, may be the first billionaire couple with a huge stake in an enormous technology company to announce their divorce.They won’t be the last.The surprise announcement last week that the Bezoses would divorce after 25 years of marriage instantly raised questions about the future of their 16 percent, roughly $140 billion stake in Amazon. As its founder, chairman, chief executive and largest shareholder, Mr. Bezos exerts almost complete control over the company he created.The big question is, now what? Will Ms. Bezos sell her portion of the family’s vast Amazon holdings? Will she seek a seat on the company’s board? Will she push for big strategic or management changes?The Bezos divorce could have consequences for investors in other companies with billionaire founders — Google, Facebook, Groupon and Snap, to name a few. Unlike Mr. Bezos, who owns Amazon shares with ordinary voting rights, these tech entrepreneurs wield control of their companies by holding special classes of shares that confer extra power to their owners.To put it more explicitly: What would happen if Mark Zuckerberg and his wife filed for divorce?That’s not to suggest there’s anything amiss in the relationship between Mr. Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan, or with the marriages of controlling shareholders at any other giant tech company.[Who is MacKenzie Bezos? Her private life has become a public fascination.]But more such breakups are inevitable — after all, the divorce rate in California is about 60 percent, and many of the founders of high-flying Silicon Valley companies are only now reaching the age for the proverbial midlife crisis.The phenomenon of tech companies with controlling founders is still relatively recent. Google set a trend when it went public in 2004 with dual-class shares that enshrined Sergey Brin and Larry Page as the controlling owners. In the ensuing 15 years, about two-thirds of initial public stock offerings backed by venture capital funds have involved similar super-shares, according to Dealogic.The fate of such controlling shares in cases of divorce is, or should be, of intense interest to investors.David F. Larcker, director of the Corporate Governance Research Initiative at Stanford’s business school and a co-author of “Separation Anxiety: The Impact of CEO Divorce on Shareholders,” said his research showed that “shareholders should pay attention to matters involving the personal lives of C.E.O.s and take this information into account when making investment decisions.”The law doesn’t explicitly require controlling shareholders to disclose prenuptial or other agreements that could affect the disposal of their company stakes in the event of divorce. But some experts said they would support such a requirement.“It’s absolutely material, and as a result it should be disclosed,” said John C. Coffee Jr., director of the Center for Corporate Governance at Columbia University. In theory, he said, any provision that would reassure investors would lead to a higher share price. “There’s no question it’s in the best interests of shareholders,” he said.Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the corporate governance center at the University of Delaware, also supports the disclosure of prenuptial agreements. “No one thought a Bezos divorce was a risk factor” for Amazon, Mr. Elson said. “Now no one knows how this will turn out. From a shareholder perspective, it’s certainly material.”Mr. Larcker said requiring public disclosure might be going a little too far, considering the privacy issues involved. But he agreed that, at the least, a board needed to be kept fully informed.“Once a divorce settlement is underway,” he said, “the board needs to think about whether the ex-spouse will demand a board seat, whether they are planning to liquidate their shares or perhaps sell as a block to an investor, maybe an activist. All of these actions can have a real impact on shareholder value.”So far, investors have hardly reacted to the Bezos breakup — Amazon’s shares are up slightly since the announcement. That might be partly because the couple went out of their way to characterize the split as amicable, saying they plan to “continue our shared lives as friends.”When many billions of dollars are at stake, amicable divorces are rare, even when they start out that way. “Most divorces start out contentious and end contentious,” said Samantha Bley DeJean, a matrimonial lawyer in San Francisco, who has worked with many Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and represents Angelina Jolie in her custody battle with Brad Pitt. “When they start out amicably, you hold out some hope that they’ll stay that way, but in my experience it only gets worse.”In 2017 Mark Pincus, the billionaire founder of the internet game company Zynga, and Alison Gelb Pincus filed for divorce. The two had a prenuptial agreement, which hasn’t been made public, but presumably addressed the issue of Mr. Pincus’s 70 percent voting stake in Zynga. In an interview with The New York Times last year, Mr. Pincus said the split was amicable.After the couple filed for divorce, Mr. Pincus converted his super-voting shares into ordinary shares, reducing his voting control of Zynga to about 10 percent. He told The Times that the conversion had nothing to do with the divorce.Ms. Pincus is an entrepreneur in her own right: she helped found the online retailer One Kings Lane, which was sold in 2016 to Bed Bath & Beyond for nearly $30 million. The Pincuses quietly finalized their divorce last year on terms that haven’t been made public. Zynga hasn’t disclosed any changes in Mr. Pincus’s shareholdings since then.A spokeswoman for Zynga, where Mr. Pincus remains executive chairman, declined to comment. Ms. DeJean, who represented Ms. Pincus, said she couldn’t discuss the case. But in general, she said, the fact that both spouses are extremely wealthy typically doesn’t change the dynamics of a divorce.“It becomes a matter of principle,” she said, “and principles can be dangerous in these situations, especially when there’s enough money to litigate them.”In their 2010 divorce, Steve and Elaine Wynn, the founders of the casino company Wynn Resorts, each received half of the couple’s 36 percent controlling stake in the company, valued then at $1.4 billion. To maintain Mr. Wynn’s control, Ms. Wynn agreed to vote her shares along with her ex-husband.At the time, the arrangement seemed amicable: Ms. Wynn warmly described Mr. Wynn as her “partner of 41 years and father of her children,” and Mr. Wynn said he was delighted that his ex-wife would remain on the company’s board.That didn’t last long. After two acrimonious years, Ms. Wynn was forced off the board and sued to regain voting control of her shares.The animosity only deepened after The Wall Street Journal reported last year that Mr. Wynn had repeatedly sexually harassed Wynn employees and had paid a manicurist $7.5 million after she told others that Mr. Wynn had forced her to have sex.That led Mr. Wynn to step down as chief executive. He sold his shares, leaving his former wife as the company’s largest shareholder. Since peaking in 2014, Wynn shares have fallen by more than half.Mr. Larcker’s research found that among 24 chief executives who got divorced between 2009 and 2012, seven (29 percent) stepped down within two years of the divorce settlement.Ms. DeJean said she had recently drafted numerous prenuptial agreements for young entrepreneurs. Negotiating them is delicate: It’s not especially romantic to be discussing the disposal of assets in a divorce proceeding in the middle of a courtship or engagement.The idea of making those prenuptial terms public could be anathema to such clients.Still, Ms. DeJean said, “I can see why investors would want to know.”An earlier version of this column paraphrased incorrectly Mark Pincus’s comments about the conversion of his shares in Zynga. He said the conversion of his super-voting shares into ordinary shares had nothing to do with his divorce from Alison Gelb Pincus; he made no reference to a lawsuit.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Jaclyn PeiserAnyone remember blogs?Years before Facebook, Instagram and Twitter took over as the prime spots for oversharing, people had to go to websites like Open Diary, Blogger and LiveJournal to publish their thoughts for the world to read.But over time, social media became the way that people shared articles that reflected their politics, posted images of loved ones and sent out messages of frustration or exultation.Medium, the online open platform and publisher, is one bloglike platform that has persisted and innovated in the social media era. With 90 million unique monthly visitors, it has maintained relevance as a destination for open letters, petitions and personal essays. But it scarcely sparks such frenetic reactions as it did Thursday night.That was when Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s billionaire chief executive, took to the website to accuse American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, of “extortion and blackmail.” The headline of the post was “No thank you, Mr. Pecker,” a reference to David J. Pecker, the chairman of American Media.The post went viral, and Medium soon found itself in the middle of a major news story.In a statement, a Medium spokeswoman said the site hadn’t known that Mr. Bezos was going to publish the post.“We do not actively monitor the specific, nonpublic details and actions of these (or any) accounts out of respect to and adherence to their individual privacies,” the spokeswoman, Sandee Roston, said in an emailed statement.The opportunity to publish for a nonbranded platform has made Medium, which was founded by Ev Williams in 2012, an appealing destination for a number of marquee media figures and chief executives.Katie Couric has used Medium to promote interviews and philanthropic partnerships. Joanna Coles, the former chief content officer of Hearst Magazines, used the platform to write about her experience as a working mother.In 2015, Jay Carney, the senior vice president of global corporate affairs for Amazon, disputed an article in The New York Times about Amazon’s work culture in a post on Medium. Dean Baquet, the executive editor of The Times, responded on the platform, defending The Times’s reporting.Medium can be appealing because it is unfiltered, and posts can be however long the writer wants them to be. For Mr. Bezos, that was about 2,100 words.“When people have something to say, they come to Medium, where they can say it at length,” Ms. Roston, the spokeswoman, said in the statement. “We make it easy for people to publish; it’s clean and well designed, and there are no ads.”Follow Jaclyn Peiser on Twitter: @jackiepeiser.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Elijah Walker(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. A second woman has accused Virginia’s lieutenant governor of sexual assault, allegations that deepen the state’s political leadership crisis.Meredith Watson accused Justin Fairfax of raping her while they were students at Duke University in 2000. In a statement, Ms. Watson said she was coming forward after learning about allegations disclosed this week by Vanessa Tyson, who said Mr. Fairfax assaulted her in 2004.Mr. Fairfax’s ability to stay on as lieutenant governor now appears more precarious, with leading Democrats — including some Congressional Black Caucus members — calling for an investigation. Mr. Fairfax, above in the capital today, has denied both allegations.It’s the latest in a week of turmoil in the commonwealth. Revelations about past racist behavior by the governor, attorney general and a top Republican state senator are testing the state’s reputation as a progressive-minded beacon. The week has also reinforced that blackface, with its roots in demeaning minstrel-show traditions that date to the 1830s, has never gone away._____2. The Supreme Court blocked a Louisiana law that would have limited access to abortion providers. But it may be only a temporary setback for the anti-abortion movement.The ruling was a temporary stay of the law, which requires doctors performing abortions to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals, and the court is likely to hear a challenge to the law on the merits in October.The Louisiana law is just one case in a broader strategy to chip away at abortion rights, as abortion opponents advance a long-term and wide-ranging strategy to control state legislatures and governorships. Above, protesters outside the court in January.In a surprise move, Chief Justice John Roberts Jr. joined the court’s liberal wing in the 5-to-4 decision. Our Supreme Court reporter takes a look at how the chief justice balances guarding his court’s legitimacy against his generally conservative impulses._____3. The acting attorney general told Congress that he had “not interfered in any way with the special counsel’s investigation” or provided information to the White House about it.But Matthew Whitaker, appearing before the House Judiciary Committee, refused to discuss other things, like his conversations with President Trump, or why he recently said the special counsel’s inquiry would soon wrap up. He also declined to defend the investigation as his predecessor and likely successor at the Justice Department have done.Separately, Mr. Trump is moving toward accepting a border-security deal that would fall well short of his once-firm demand for $5.7 billion for a wall at the southwestern frontier._____4. When the world’s richest man announced he was getting a divorce on Twitter, it was just the first surprise of many to swirl around Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder.Steamy texts, a private investigation, claims of blackmail — and a suspicion that politics are behind it all — followed Mr. Bezos. He raised the stakes Thursday when he accused the National Enquirer and its publisher, American Media Inc., of trying to extort him.Mr. Bezos said the company had threatened to publish lewd photos of him if he did not say publicly that the tabloid’s earlier reporting on him was not motivated by politics. We broke down how a tabloid tale escalated, and exploded andGavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’s security chief, was tasked with finding out how The National Enquirer obtained the photos. He’s counseled governments, celebrities and countless readers on how to ward off threats and stay safe in a scary world._____5. Oil sanctions imposed on Venezuela last week by the Trump administration were meant to punish President Nicolás Maduro and force him to cede power to the opposition leader. The effects have hit its citizens harder and faster than expected.Customers suspended contracts, banks suspended Venezuelan accounts, and a dozen tankers filled with Venezuelan crude sat stranded across the Caribbean. But the Venezuelan state oil company, the main target of the sanctions and Mr. Maduro’s bankroller, has found a new way to survive with a boost from its biggest oil investor, Russia’s state-run Rosneft.Now, many Venezuelans fear that if Mr. Maduro hangs on to power, the sanctions will push the country to the brink of humanitarian catastrophe. Above, people wait to purchase hard-to-find food items in January.“I’m afraid that if these sanctions are implemented in their current form, we’re looking at starvation,” a Venezuelan economist said._____6. At least 10 people died in a fire at a Brazilian training center for young soccer players run by one of South America’s most prominent teams.The fire struck a dormitory of the training center of the Flemengo club in Rio de Janeiro where many players between the ages of 14 and 17 were asleep. The fire reverberated through the soccer world and focused the attention on living conditions for young Brazilian players, many of whom live in similar dormitories across the country. Above, fans gather outside the training center to pray.“Training at Flamengo is realizing your life’s goal,” a Brazilian sports columnist and author said. “But now it’s a dream turned into a nightmare.”_____7. For years, competitive surfing has excluded women from some of the biggest competitions around the world. But that’s beginning to change.The Times Magazine talks to a group of female surfers, including Paige Alms, above, who have insisted upon the same right to risk their lives in competition that men enjoy, and for equal pay — and they have been more successful than they ever imagined._____8. The Grammys made a series of changes in the past year to address its lack of diversity. But whether new nominees will win — or big names will show up at the awards show on Sunday night — isn’t guaranteed.One clear change viewers will see is that eight, instead of five, acts will now compete in four major categories: album, record and song of the year, and best new artist. That change satisfied critics by adding more women to the mix, but in many ways the Grammys are still walking a tightrope of balancing diverse representation while staying culturally relevant, our music reporter writes.In this week’s In Her Words, our gender newsletter, we take a look at how Ariana Grande and Cardi B, above, who are up for a collective seven Grammys, have taken music video tropes created by men — audacious displays of money and sex — and expertly extracted the testosterone._____9. Are you someone who wants to blame winter for everything?Only about 6 percent of the population has seasonal affective disorder, a form of depression that is commonly understood as a winter affliction. The rest of us are just battling winter blues. Blame it on your circadian rhythm, which gets disrupted when the days get shorter and nights longer.We have a slew of ways to beat back the winter doldrums, including light therapy, herbalism and forcing yourself, and others, to be social.Perhaps you’re looking for a wintertime sport instead. An increasing number of people are taking up snow hiking: wintertime trekking using snowshoes or special boots. Here’s what you need to know._____10. Finally, we end with a woman known as “the Black Fairy.”During the occupation years in Germany after World War II, the offspring of German women and African-American soldiers were called “brown babies” or “mischlingskinder,” a derogatory term for mixed-race children.Mabel Grammer, an African-American journalist, and her husband, an Army chief warrant officer stationed in Germany, adopted 12 of them and she found homes in the U.S. for 500 others. She never received a Times obituary, until now. Hers is the latest in our Overlooked series.“I just think of my own life,” one of her children said. “The opportunities to be where I am today would not have been there. I know that for a fact.”Have a wonderful weekend._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byA primer on the players and plot points in a fight that erupted on Thursday in accusations of extortion. By Zach Wichter and Tiffany HsuA surprise divorce announcement by the world’s richest man, steamy texts, a private investigation, claims of blackmail — and a suspicion that politics are behind it all. These aren’t plot points in a movie coming soon to Amazon Prime. They’re the increasingly surprising events swirling around Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder. Mr. Bezos raised the stakes on Thursday when he accused The National Enquirer and its publisher, American Media Inc., of trying to extort him. In a blog post, he said the company had threatened to publish lewd photos of him if he did not say publicly that the tabloid’s earlier reporting on him was not motivated by politics.The story will probably get wilder. Before it does, here’s a primer on Mr. Bezos’ divorce, the National Enquirer, and why the battle between them could have implications for President Trump.[Jeff Bezos said he was a victim of extortion and blackmail. What’s the difference?]Before Mr. Bezos published his bombshell post on the online platform Medium, he lit up Twitter on Jan. 9 with the surprise announcement of his separation and planned divorce from his wife of 25 years, the novelist MacKenzie Bezos:The reasons for the divorce and the motive behind the Twitter post were a mystery until the next day, when The Enquirer’s Jan. 28 issue appeared on supermarket racks. The cover called Mr. Bezos “sleazy” and included the logo of the newspaper he has owned since 2013, The Washington Post. The article itself included some highly personal text messages he had sent to a woman with whom he was having an extramarital affair, Lauren Sanchez, a former host of the Fox show “So You Think You Can Dance” who is married to a powerful Hollywood figure, Patrick Whitesell, the co-chief executive of the agency William Morris Endeavor. There were also paparazzi photos of Mr. Bezos and Ms. Sanchez on an airport tarmac and “gazing into each other’s eyes” in a Santa Monica restaurant.Mr. Bezos subsequently opened a private investigation to determine why he had been targeted by The Enquirer. He directed his longtime personal security chief, Gavin de Becker, to find out how the tabloid had obtained the texts. Mr. de Becker’s firm questioned Ms. Sanchez’s brother, Michael Sanchez, about whether he might be the source, according to The Daily Beast.On Tuesday, The Post weighed in on the melodrama involving its owner with a lengthy article headlined “Was tabloid exposé of Bezos affair just juicy gossip or a political hit job?” “Depending on whom you believe,” the article said, “The Enquirer’s exposé on Bezos’s affair was a political hit inspired by President Trump’s allies, an inside job by people seeking to protect Bezos’s marriage, or no conspiracy at all, simply a juicy gossip story.” The Post described Ms. Sanchez’s brother as a “pro-Trump Hollywood talent manager” whom Mr. de Becker considered as a possible source of the texts.David J. Pecker, American Media’s chairman, has a longstanding allegiance to Mr. Trump. According to federal prosecutors, he used The Enquirer to help protect Mr. Trump’s presidential campaign. In addition to defending Mr. Trump in its pages and lashing out at his rivals during the 2016 race, the tabloid was involved in a so-called catch-and-kill scheme to bury damaging allegations.American Media admitted to federal prosecutors that it had helped orchestrate hush-money deals involving two women who said they had had affairs with Mr. Trump: the former Playboy model Karen McDougal and the pornographic film star Stormy Daniels. Mr. Pecker reached an immunity deal with prosecutors in exchange for providing them with information.Reporters for The Post have investigated American Media and Mr. Trump. And American Media has lucrative relationships with Saudi Arabia, which Mr. Bezos, without elaborating, noted in his post on Thursday.Several days ago, an AMI leader advised us that Mr. Pecker is “apoplectic” about our investigation. For reasons still to be better understood, the Saudi angle seems to hit a particularly sensitive nerve.Mr. Bezos also said that his ownership of The Post had made him a target.It’s unavoidable that certain powerful people who experience Washington Post news coverage will wrongly conclude I am their enemy.President Trump is one of those people, obvious by his many tweets. Also, The Post’s essential and unrelenting coverage of the murder of its columnist Jamal Khashoggi is undoubtedly unpopular in certain circles.Mr. Trump has made no secret of his animosity toward Mr. Bezos. After the news of the Amazon mogul’s pending divorce and The Enquirer’s exposé, he coined a new nickname for a man he considers an antagonist.Long before that, the president had often used Twitter to criticize Amazon, The Post and Mr. Bezos. One of Mr. Trump’s favorite tropes is to conflate Amazon and the newspaper, as he did on Jan. 13, although The Post is owned by Mr. Bezos personally.Tiffany Hsu is a breaking news reporter on the Business Desk. Before joining The Times in 2017 she covered economic news for The Los Angeles Times and earned an M.B.A. from Columbia University.  @tiffkhsu Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, who was staggered by Amazon’s decision to pull out of its plans to come to New York City, is working intensely behind the scenes to lure the company back, even connecting with Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder, to make a personal pitch.The governor has had multiple phone conversations with Amazon executives, including Mr. Bezos, over the past two weeks, according to two people with knowledge of the efforts. In those calls, Mr. Cuomo said he would navigate the company through the byzantine governmental process.Mr. Cuomo did not offer a new location but rather guarantees of support for the project, one person said. Amazon executives gave no sense the company would reconsider.The governor on Friday confirmed his efforts during a radio interview, and suggested, without elaborating, that he told Amazon that there were “other ways that the state can get it done” that might bypass some of the deal’s more vocal opponents.The push to get Amazon to reconsider also included an open letter that ran as a full-page ad in The New York Times on Friday, urging Mr. Bezos, the company’s chief executive, to reverse course and build the campus in Long Island City, Queens.[Latest update: After Cuomo’s calls to Amazon, a flurry of conversations to rally support.]The letter was signed by more than 70 supportive unions including the AFL-CIO, local businesses and business leaders, community groups and elected officials including Representatives Hakeem Jeffries of Brooklyn, a top Democrat, Max Rose, a first-term Democrat from Staten Island, and Carolyn Maloney, whose district encompasses the Amazon site, and the former mayor David N. Dinkins.The letter said that Mr. Cuomo “will take personal responsibility for the project’s state approval,” and Mayor Bill de Blasio “will work together with the governor to manage the community development process.”A full-page ad appearing in The New York Times on Friday urged Mr. Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, to reverse course again and build a campus in Queens.So far at least, the company has shown no sign of reconsidering its decision to abandon the deal, in which Amazon promised to create up to 40,000 jobs in Long Island City in exchange for a state grant of $500 million and state and city tax breaks that would have eventually totaled more than $2 billion.On Friday, the governor told WNYC’s Brian Lehrer that the company has not conveyed any change of heart. “I have no reason to believe that Amazon is reconsidering,” he said. “Would I like them to? Certainly. But I have no reason to believe that.”A day earlier, Mr. Cuomo said that “ if the State Senate said that they would approve it, that would be helpful. But in the meantime, I haven’t heard any changes.”Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the Democratic majority leader of the State Senate, said in a statement that she had indicated her “willingness to work” with Amazon. “I have always been clear that I support job creation and was disappointed with Amazon’s decision and hoped they would reconsider,” she said.An Amazon spokeswoman declined a request for comment.The conversation between Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Bezos appeared to have been the first time the two had spoken at any point about Amazon’s plans for Queens, or about the company’s abrupt decision earlier in February to cancel the project amid noisy opposition.Since the deal fell through, Mr. Cuomo has been arguing in public and in private that support for the project was and remains far more widespread than it may have seemed.“I do believe Amazon should have stayed and fought the opposition,” said Mr. Cuomo in a radio interview on Tuesday. “It was a vocal minority opposition. Seventy percent of the people support Amazon.”He reiterated that message to Amazon executives during calls, according to one of the people with knowledge of the exchanges, both of whom requested anonymity in order to discuss the private conversations.The campus was meant to be one half of what had been called a second headquarters for the company; the other half, with roughly the same number of jobs, is still planned for a Virginia suburb of Washington.But Amazon faced vociferous opponents — including local groups, some unions and political activists animated by the surprise victory of Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez — from the moment it announced its plans for Queens in November. Three months later, with no end in sight for the sustained political pressure and negative attention, executives decided to pull the plug.Those familiar with the company’s thinking have insisted that the decision to abandon the New York City plan had been based on a confluence of factors, including the loud opposition and the lack of any sign it would abate.“We think we could have gotten New York done, but you have to say, ‘At what cost?’” Holly Sullivan, Amazon’s director of global economic development, said at an event in Virginia on Thursday. “We made a prudent decision that gives us the opportunity to hyperfocus on D.C.”The advertisement, an open letter to Mr. Bezos that was set to appear on a full page in Friday’s newspaper, is aimed at combating the notion that the opposition to Amazon was widespread, arguing that a “clear majority” of New Yorkers support the company.“We know the public debate that followed the announcement of the Long Island City project was rough and not very welcoming,” reads the letter, paid for by the Partnership for New York City, a prominent business group. “But when we commit to a project as important as this, we figure out how to get it done in a way that works for everyone.”Kathryn S. Wylde, the president of the partnership, said the letter had been aimed not just at Amazon but at assuring technology companies generally that New York City welcomed their businesses: “Yes, it’s directed to Amazon in hopes they will reconsider. Equally, it is a message to the broader industry.”“The governor’s office was working with the business community on how to send this message,” Ms. Wylde added, and the result was the letter.The letter included new supporters as well as many — such as public housing leaders, local small businesses and unions like Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union and the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York — who backed the deal all along. A spokesman for Mr. de Blasio, whose initial support of the Amazon deal has turned into vigorous criticism after the company pulled out, said the mayor was aware that the letter was being prepared.The most vocal opponents, like Stuart Appelbaum, president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, were not among the signatories.“Our concerns remain the same,” Mr. Appelbaum said in response to Mr. Cuomo’s efforts. “If Amazon wants to come to New York, it must respect all workers and communities.”One thing that has changed in the last two weeks: Ms. Stewart-Cousins, the State Senate majority leader, withdrew her nomination of Senator Michael Gianaris to the obscure Public Authorities Control Board. The position would have given Mr. Gianaris, who represents Long Island City, the ability to vote down the development project for Amazon when it came before the board in about a year’s time.But Mr. Cuomo refused to appoint Mr. Gianaris, who declined to comment on the governor’s efforts, or to formally reject him. And so last week, Ms. Stewart-Cousins selected another Queens representative, Leroy Comrie, to sit on the board, a person who would be more likely to get the governor’s approval.Mr. Comrie did not respond to a request for comment.“The State Senate made a terrible blunder; everyone, including their members, knows it,” said Dani Lever, the governor’s communications director. “The governor will take over the process and can comfortably assure Amazon the approval will get done.”Follow J. David Goodman on Twitter: @jdavidgoodmanOpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Jeff Bezos’ security consultant accused the Saudi government of gaining unauthorized access to the Amazon chief executive’s phone, as part of an effort to harm the world’s richest man.In an opinion article in The Daily Beast on Saturday, Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ security chief, alleged the Saudis wanted to hurt Mr. Bezos because he owns The Washington Post. The Post has aggressively reported on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, one of its columnists, who was killed last year in Turkey. United States officials have concluded Mr. Khashoggi, who was critical of Saudi leaders, was killed on the orders of the Saudi crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.Mr. de Becker said he had turned over his findings about the Saudis and their role against Mr. Bezos to law enforcement.“Our investigators and several experts concluded with high confidence that the Saudis had access to Bezos’ phone, and gained private information,” Mr. de Becker wrote.Mr. de Becker’s claims about the Saudis are difficult to verify and raise many questions. Throughout his article, the security consultant was vague on details. He did not reveal direct evidence of his accusations and wrote that he would not speak again publicly on the issue.On Sunday, American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, which first reported earlier this year that Mr. Bezos was having an extramarital affair, issued a statement denying “the false and unsubstantiated claims of Mr. de Becker.”Amazon did not immediately have a comment about Mr. Bezos. An official with the Saudi embassy in Washington declined to comment on Saturday.Mr. de Becker’s allegations are the latest twist in a bizarre situation that has embroiled the largest U.S. tabloid publisher and Mr. Bezos, who runs Amazon and owns The Post. The unusual set of circumstances began in January, when Mr. Bezos announced that he and his wife, MacKenzie Bezos, were divorcing. The next day, The Enquirer published an exposé revealing that Mr. Bezos was romantically involved with Lauren Sanchez, a former Los Angeles TV anchor.Then in February, Mr. Bezos published a post on Medium accusing AMI of “extortion and blackmail.” Mr. Bezos said AMI had threatened to publish graphic photographs of him, including a “below-the-belt selfie,” if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his affair was not motivated by political concerns. He said AMI, which has had ties to the Saudis, was “apoplectic” about The Post’s reporting on the Saudis.Mr. Bezos added that he had asked Mr. de Becker, his longtime security consultant, to investigate who had leaked information and photos about him.Earlier this month, The New York Times reported that two people with direct knowledge of The Enquirer’s reporting said that everything the tabloid received on Mr. Bezos’ affair, including the “below-the-belt selfie,” came from a single source. The Wall Street Journal later reported that AMI had paid Ms. Sanchez’s brother, Michael Sanchez, $200,000 for the texts.In its statement on Sunday, AMI said directly that its source was Mr. Sanchez. “The fact of the matter is, it was Michael Sanchez who tipped the National Enquirer off to the affair on Sept. 10, 2018, and over the course of four months provided all of the materials for our investigation.” AMI added, “There was no involvement by any other third party whatsover.”Mr. de Becker on Saturday said that the effort against Mr. Bezos went beyond Mr. Sanchez and also involved the Saudis. Mr. de Becker pointed to an article published on Saturday by The New York Post in which Mr. Sanchez said The Enquirer “had seen text exchanges between the secret couple” before he was in touch with the tabloid on the matter.“Reality is complicated, and can’t always be boiled down to a simple narrative like ‘the brother did it,’” Mr. de Becker wrote.Mr. de Becker said his investigation included interviews with cybersecurity experts and “people who personally know the Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman.” But he stopped short of saying what methods he believed the Saudis may have used to access Mr. Bezos’ personal information.He added that AMI had wanted him to make a public statement “saying that my investigation had concluded they hadn’t relied upon ‘any form of electronic eavesdropping or hacking in their news-gathering process,’” and that the tabloid’s story was not “instigated, dictated or influenced in any manner by external forces, political or otherwise.”Mr. de Becker said he told AMI in a recorded call that those claims were “not my truth.”Follow Karen Weise on Twitter: @KYWeise.Amy Chozick and David Kirkpatrick contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Federal prosecutors in New York are planning to meet with Amazon CEO Jeff Bezos about his allegations that the National Enquirer tried to blackmail him with help from Saudi Arabia.A person familiar with the plans told The Associated Press the billionaire will meet with prosecutors in the coming days.The person was not authorized to discuss the meeting and spoke on condition of anonymity.Bezos security consultant Gavin de Becker accused the Saudi government last month of gaining ""private information"" and access to Bezos' phone.The tabloid's parent company has had business dealings with Saudi Arabia.Bezos says the Enquirer threatened to publish explicit photographs of him unless he stopped investigating how the magazine obtained private texts between Bezos and his mistress.The Enquirer and Saudi Arabia have denied wrongdoing.Advertisement"
" Her divorce from the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos has made this novelist, and her private life, a public fascination.CreditCreditPhoto Illustration by The New York Times; Jon Kopaloff/Getty ImagesSupported byBy Jonah Engel Bromwich and Alexandra AlterIn her 25 years of marriage to Jeff Bezos, MacKenzie Bezos has been a loyal ambassador for Amazon, the company that made her and her husband the richest couple in the world.She was an integral part of its origin story, driving to Seattle in 1994 while Mr. Bezos sat in the passenger seat, working on the nascent company’s business plan. She was Amazon’s first accountant and was involved in its transformation from a small online bookseller to the e-commerce behemoth it is today, the second company in American history to be valued at over a trillion dollars.Ms. Bezos, 48, is a novelist. But Amazon has defined her public image almost wholly. The announcement this week that she and her husband would be getting a divorce may soon change that. A statement signed “Jeff & MacKenzie,” which was first posted to Mr. Bezos’s Twitter account, read: “After a period of loving exploration and trial separation, we have decided to divorce and continue our shared lives as friends.” The couple, who have four children, wrote that they see “wonderful futures ahead, as parents, friends, partners in ventures and projects, and as individuals pursuing ventures and adventures.”Over the last few decades, as Amazon grew, Ms. Bezos appeared with her husband at some high-profile events, including Vanity Fair’s Oscar parties and the Golden Globes; in 2012, she was a host of the Met Gala. (Amazon also underwrote the event.) But for the most part, Ms. Bezos has guarded her privacy, preferring to focus on writing and her children. She could not be reached for comment on this article.She has made infrequent forays into the public eye to promote her books and to defend her husband’s company. In 2013, she posted a scathing one-star review on Amazon of “The Everything Store,” a book about Amazon by Brad Stone, to say it was plagued by “numerous factual inaccuracies” and “full of techniques which stretch the boundaries of non-fiction.” (Mr. Stone is a veteran technology reporter. Michiko Kakutani, reviewing his book for The New York Times, said he told “this story of disruptive innovation with authority and verve, and lots of well-informed reporting.”)Little is known about Ms. Bezos, a private woman who may be awarded one of the largest divorce settlements to date.MacKenzie Tuttle, an aspiring novelist, met her husband at D. E. Shaw, a New York hedge fund where Mr. Bezos, a computer scientist by training, had become a senior vice president. She told Vogue that she took the position of administrative assistant to pay the bills while she worked on her novels, but she soon found herself enamored with the laugh of the man who worked in the next office over. As Ms. Bezos put it in a 2013 interview with Charlie Rose: “It was love at first listen.”Within three months of dating, the two were engaged; they married shortly thereafter at a resort in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Bezos was 30; Ms. Bezos was 23.She often described herself as a bookish introvert, especially compared with Mr. Bezos, a swaggering, infinitely expansive businessman whose chief romantic desire, he told Wired in 1999, six years after his wedding, had been to meet someone “resourceful.” (That type of attraction seems to be mutual. In 2017, at a Summit panel, Mr. Bezos said that one of his wife’s sayings is: “I would much rather have a kid with nine fingers than a resourceless kid.”)Ms. Bezos’s literary ambitions began early. According to interviews and her author biography on Amazon (where she coyly notes that she “lives in Seattle with her husband and four children”), she started writing seriously at age 6, when she finished a 142-page chapter book titled “The Book Worm.” It was later destroyed in a flood; Ms. Bezos has said that she now meticulously backs up her work.At Princeton, she studied creative writing under the Nobel Prize-winning novelist Toni Morrison, who hired her as a research assistant for the 1992 novel “Jazz” and introduced her to her high-powered literary agent, Amanda Urban. In Vogue, Ms. Morrison hailed Ms. Bezos as a rare talent, calling her “one of the best students I’ve ever had in my creative writing classes.” In 2005 she gave Ms. Bezos a glowing blurb on her debut novel, “The Testing of Luther Albright,” calling it, “a rarity: a sophisticated novel that breaks and swells the heart.”After graduating from Princeton in 1992, six years after Mr. Bezos graduated from the same university, Ms. Bezos took the job that introduced her to the future e-commerce titan. The couple married in 1993 and moved to Seattle in 1994, the same year Amazon was incorporated. Quickly, Ms. Bezos’s identity became enfolded into her husband’s company, even as she sought to make her mark in a publishing industry that he worked tirelessly to upend.From the start, Mr. Bezos knew he wanted to disrupt traditional retail businesses using the internet. He quickly established Amazon as a successful internet bookstore and then began to diversify, selling music (when that was still viable), videos, medication and other consumer goods.His vision, as told to Chip Bayers and published in a 1999 Wired profile, was prescient. Mr. Bezos predicted that in 2020: The vast bulk of store-bought goods — food staples, paper products, cleaning supplies, and the like — you will order electronically. Some physical storefronts will survive, but they’ll have to offer at least one of two things: entertainment value or immediate convenience.MacKenzie Bezos, who first lived with her husband in a rented home in an East Seattle suburb, was heavily involved in the business at the start: In addition to working as an accountant, she helped brainstorm names for the company and even shipped early orders through UPS, according to “The Everything Store.”“She was clearly a voice in the room in those early years,” Mr. Stone said in an interview for this article.In 1999, they moved into a $10 million mansion in Medina, Wash., and Ms. Bezos became pregnant with their first child. As they rapidly accumulated wealth, the Bezos family took pains to preserve the trappings of normalcy. Ms. Bezos often drove the four children to school in a Honda, and would then drop Mr. Bezos at the office, Mr. Stone wrote.As the company flourished, Ms. Bezos stepped back and focused on her family and her literary ambitions.“Business wasn’t her passion, and when Amazon took off she wasn’t as involved in the day-to-day business,” Mr. Stone said.She spent a decade on her first novel, often getting up early to write, and signed with her mentor’s literary agent, Ms. Urban at ICM Partners, who also represents Cormac McCarthy, Haruki Murakami and Kazuo Ishiguro. “The Testing of Luther Albright,” which was published by Harper in 2005 and was widely embraced by critics, tells the story of an engineer whose professional and home lives begin to unravel in the 1980s. In a review in The New York Times, Kate Bolick called the novel “quietly absorbing.” The Los Angeles Times named it one of the best books of the year, and Publishers Weekly praised Ms. Bezos’s “subtle imagination and a startling talent for naturalism.”In 2013, Ms. Bezos published her second novel, “Traps,” which follows the journey of woman named Jessica Lessing, a reclusive film star, as she emerges from hiding to confront her father, a con man who has been selling her out to the paparazzi for years. Jessica drives to Las Vegas to meet him, and encounters three other women: a teen mother, a dog-shelter owner and a former military bodyguard, who become her allies.“I would say the biggest theme in the book is the idea that the things that we worry over the most in life, the things that we feel trapped by, the mistakes we’ve made, the bad luck that we come across, the accidents that happen to us, the paradoxes — in the end, oftentimes those things are the things that we’ll look back and be the most grateful for,” Ms. Bezos said of the novel during an interview with Charlie Rose. “They take us where we need to go.”Throughout their marriage, Mr. Bezos was an enthusiastic supporter of Ms. Bezos’s fiction, and would clear his schedule to read drafts of her novels, Ms. Bezos told Vogue. In the acknowledgments of “Traps,” she called him “my most devoted reader.”But Ms. Bezos’s literary career may have been complicated to some extent by her high-profile husband, who has done more than perhaps any individual in recent history to transform and sometimes destabilize the book-selling business. Many independent booksellers, publishers and agents blame Amazon for building a monopoly that has put independent stores out of business and poses a dire threat to once thriving chains like Barnes & Noble. Even though Amazon splashily introduced its own publishing imprints, Ms. Bezos still chose traditional houses for her books: Harper and Knopf. (When asked by an interviewer why Ms. Bezos wasn’t publishing her books through Amazon’s fiction imprints, Mr. Bezos jokingly described his wife as “the fish that got away.”)Sales of her books have been modest: The novels have sold a few thousand print copies, according to NPD BookScan, which tracks some 85 percent of print sales. Some independent booksellers refused to stock Ms. Bezos’s novels, according to a publishing executive who spoke on the condition of anonymity. Ms. Urban, Ms. Bezos’s literary agent, declined to comment for this article.The Bezoses were the richest couple in the world; their divorce exists at a level of wealth that is virtually unprecedented. There have been billion-dollar divorces, like that of Steve and Elaine Wynn who owned casinos together, and certainly, technology entrepreneurs have been in and out of divorce court — most notably Larry Ellison, a co-founder of Oracle who has been wed and unwed four times.But there has never been a divorce with a couple worth an estimated $137 billion, as Mr. and Ms. Bezos are.Little is known about the couple’s financial arrangements. Divorces are governed by state law, and the Bezoses’ primary residence and business are in Washington State, a community property state where any income earned or wealth created during the marriage is to be divided equitably between spouses.But some lawyers think it is unlikely that Mr. and Mrs. Bezos will adhere to that guideline in a predictable manner. If they were to split assets equally, Mr. Bezos could find the 16.1 percent of Amazon stock he owns halved.“I’d imagine they didn’t fight at all over how much wealth each other gets,” said William Zabel, a founding partner of the law firm Schulte Roth and Zabel, who has handled many high-profile divorce cases but not worked with the Bezoses. Probably, he said, “they fought about control.”Mr. Zabel represented Wendi Murdoch and Jane Welch in their separations, and said he thought the Bezoses would almost certainly negotiate a way to split the value of the Amazon shares while allowing Mr. Bezos the leverage he might need. The length of time such an agreement remains in place would be part of the negotiations.Ms. Bezos has kept a low profile in recent weeks, and has not been photographed since the divorce was announced. (Mr. Bezos, by contrast, has continued to appear publicly and was pictured this month at a Golden Globes after-party with Lauren Sanchez, a former television anchor he is reportedly seeing.)It is unknown what Ms. Bezos will do next, and how the divorce will play out.There will be inevitable questions, for instance, about her plans regarding philanthropy. The Bezoses’ charitable contributions have been modest in the past. In 2011, they donated $15 million to their alma mater to create a center to study the brain. The following year, they gave $2.5 million to support a same-sex marriage referendum in Washington. In 2017, Mr. Bezos asked his followers on Twitter for ideas about how better to give, and in September he and Ms. Bezos announced a $2 billion fund to help homeless families and start a network of Montessori-inspired preschools. But Ms. Bezos could pave her own philanthropic path, like Laurene Powell Jobs, who started her own foundation, the Emerson Collective.And if Ms. Bezos continues to write and publish, perhaps she could find a more receptive audience among independent booksellers. Some publishing executives, who declined to be quoted on the record, spoke gleefully, at least, of the blockbuster potential if Ms. Bezos decides to write a memoir.Vanessa Friedman and Paul Sullivan contributed reporting. Jonah Bromwich is based in New York. He writes for the Style section.  @jonesieman Alexandra Alter writes about publishing and the literary world. Before joining The Times in 2014, she covered books and culture for The Wall Street Journal. Prior to that, she reported on religion, and the occasional hurricane, for The Miami Herald.
   @xanalter Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressAmazon challenged its retail rivals to raise their wages and improve benefits, saying the competition will help everyone.CEO and founder Jeff Bezos said in a letter to shareholders Thursday that as Amazon grows, so does the size of its ""failed experiments.""He said Amazon is willing to continue to take risks and learn from its failures, while simultaneously supporting successful areas of its business like its third-party sellers and retail locations.Bezos named the Fire phone as a failure, but Echo and Alexa as successes.He also touted third-party sales of $160 billion and Amazon Go stores, saying Amazon is ""excited about the future.""Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byJeff Bezos, born in New Mexico, raised in Texas and educated at Princeton, must like the term, because he used it twice within a few sentences. And both times it referred to his ownership of The Washington Post. By Kevin GranvilleYou’re the world’s richest man, you are making public allegations of blackmail and extortion and mentioning photos of your “semi-erect manhood.”You can probably use any language you choose. But “complexifier”? Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, threw that multisyllabic hand grenade into his 2,100 word-blog post as he described his accusations against American Media Inc., the publisher of The National Enquirer.Here’s a piece of context: My ownership of the Washington Post is a complexifier for me. It’s unavoidable that certain powerful people who experience Washington Post news coverage will wrongly conclude I am their enemy. It’s a term that threw some readers for a loop. Okay but is “complexifier” actually a real word or....Is it even English?Well, no, not according to many dictionaries. It’s French! According to the online Larousse dictionary, it means (not surprisingly) to make something more complex or complicated.Mr. Bezos, born in New Mexico, raised in Texas and educated at Princeton, must like the term, because he used it twice within a few sentences. And both times it referred to his ownership of The Washington Post. Even though The Post is a complexifier for me, I do not at all regret my investment.In the end, the multibillionaire may have added complexifier to English usage. After all, language thrives when it becomes more complex. Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Amazon.com Inc Chief Executive Jeff Bezos on Thursday challenged retailers to hike their minimum wages to $16 an hour, prompting a comeback from Walmart Inc which asked its rivals to pay taxes.""Today I challenge our top retail competitors (you know who you are!) to match our employee benefits and our $15 minimum wage,"" the billionaire entrepreneur said in a letter to shareholders.""Do it! Better yet, go to $16 and throw the gauntlet back at us.""The online retailer raised its minimum wage to $15 per hour for U.S. employees from November, giving in to critics of poor pay and working conditions at the company.Some critics have said the hike was insufficient and note that Amazon paid zero U.S. federal income tax on more than $11 billion in profits before taxes in 2018, and received a $129 million tax rebate from the federal government.Walmart's executive vice president of corporate affairs, Dan Bartlett, responded to Bezos by tweeting, ""Hey retail competitors out there (you know who you are) how about paying your taxes?""Walmart, which has raised its minimum wage twice since 2015, pays an entry wage of $11 per hour. CEO Doug McMillon has said Walmart's average U.S. hourly wage is $17.50 including bonuses based on store performance, and excluding healthcare benefits.The two retailers, which are fierce rivals, rarely go after one another other publicly.Amazon's wage hike came as U.S. unemployment was at a near two-decade low, with retailers and shippers competing for hundreds of thousands of workers for the all-important holiday shopping season.Bezos said in his letter that the wage hike has benefited more than 250,000 Amazon employees and over 100,000 seasonal employees who worked during the last holiday season at Amazon sites in the United States. Amazon's third party sales in 2018 accounted for 58 percent of total sales, up from 56 percent in 2017, Bezos said.Amazon has said that it pays all the required taxes in every country where it operates, including $2.6 billion in corporate tax and reporting $3.4 billion in tax expense over the last three years.""Corporate tax is based on profits, not revenues, and our profits remain modest given retail is a highly competitive, low-margin business,"" according to recent Amazon statements. (Reporting by Nandita Bose in Washington and Akanksha Rana in Bengaluru; Editing by Arun Koyyur and Richard Chang)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Dave ItzkoffIt started off as a serious discussion about Jeff Bezos’ accusation that The National Enquirer was engaging in extortion and blackmail by threatening to expose his private photos. But the discussion didn’t stay serious for long.In its opening sketch this week, “Saturday Night Live” presented a parody of “Meet the Press,” hosted by Chuck Todd (Kyle Mooney) and featuring the panelists Eugene Robinson (Kenan Thompson), Peggy Noonan (Cecily Strong) and Donna Brazile (Leslie Jones).Mooney began: “Let’s start with what everyone’s talking about. In a new low for journalism, The National Enquirer was accused this week of blackmailing Amazon C.E.O. Jeff Bezos.”“You’re all highly respected journalists,” he continued. “So, when all is said and done, what do you think Jeff Bezos’ penis is going to look like?”“Excuse me?” Jones replied.The panelists offered various theories (except for Jones, who remained astounded), and Mooney asked what the scandal said about the overall state of the country.Thompson answered: “It’s disgraceful, Chuck. It’s awful. I mean, this is a clear violation of someone’s privacy.”“And what about when the pictures do come out?” Mooney asked.“I will look at them,” Thompson responded. “I will make them into hilarious memes, and I’ll send them to all my friends.”The prurient subject matter derailed an interview with the commerce secretary, Wilbur Ross (Kate McKinnon), who protested: “I don’t want to talk about penises. I’m one of the guys. I like watching sports and drinking a cold glass of blood.”And the topic overwhelmed an interview with the acting attorney general, Matthew G. Whitaker (Aidy Bryant), who explained, “I was U.S. attorney general for three months, and soon, I will go back to my job of breaking up fights on ‘The Jerry Springer Show.’”Asked by Mooney if her Whitaker had ever been instructed by President Trump to interfere in the special counsel’s investigation, Bryant began to answer.“I’m going to say something I left out of my testimony,” she said, “and this is going to blow everything out of the water here. Mr. Trump actually called me and whispered to me ——”Mooney interrupted: “I’m being told that the Bezos pics have actually come out at this very moment,” he said, vowing to devote the rest of the program to the photos.A sketch set at the Virginia State Capitol began with Thompson addressing a group of politicians there. “So we’re all in agreement that the lieutenant governor should be encouraged to step down,” he said, adding:One more quick thing before we get out of here. As you all know, earlier this week, our governor admitted to wearing blackface in college as part of a costume. And then later the attorney general. It’s extremely embarrassing to the state, and as chair of the ethics committee, I have to ask: Has anybody else worn blackface in college?One by one, the elected officials posed oblivious questions as each confessed to having worn blackface.“Does it count if you did it all the way back in the ’80s?” Strong asked.“No, of course not,” Mikey Day answered. “It was funny and cool in the ’80s.”Thompson corrected them both. “No, no, I’m going to stop you right there, Phil,” he said. “It does still count, and it was never funny or cool.”Mooney asked, “What if you wore the blackface as a tribute, like an homage to your hero?”“Who was your hero?” Thompson said.“Al Jolson,” Mooney answered.Returning to an idea it introduced in December, “S.N.L.” offered another installment of “Them Trumps,” in which the first family’s life is presented like the Fox drama “Empire,” and the president is Darius Trump (Thompson).In this episode, Darius Trump is being sped by limousine to his State of the Union address, telling the other passengers in the car that he will push back against the special counsel’s investigation.“This is America,” Thompson declares, “and even though I’m black ——”As police lights become visible in the rear window, he is interrupted by an aide played by Halsey, the evening’s mononymous host and musical guest.“O.K., we’re getting pulled over,” she says.“Oh, yeah, I knew that was coming,” Thompson says under his breath.A sketch titled “Women of Congress” started off as if it were going to be a satire of “Charlie’s Angels”: Nancy Pelosi (McKinnon) leads an action-packed team of female politicians who don’t often get the spotlight on “S.N.L.,” including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (Melissa Villaseñor), Maxine Waters (Jones), Kyrsten Sinema (Strong), Ilhan Omar (Ego Nwodim), Ann McLane Kuster (Aidy Bryant), Abigail Spanberger (Heidi Gardner) and Rashida Tlaib (Halsey).Then, shortly after its opening credits, it ended. Well, maybe another time, ladies.At the “Weekend Update” desk, the anchors Colin Jost and Michael Che continued to riff on the political scandals that have roiled Virginia over the past several days:Che:You know, making jokes about the news can get a little redundant for me. But every so often, you see a picture of a governor in blackface and I’m like, This’ll be fun. So first, the governor of Virginia admitted to wearing blackface in college for a Michael Jackson costume — by the way, making it the least accurate Michael Jackson costume possible. That would be crazy enough, but then the attorney general was like, “You, too? Blackface is my jam.” And then Liam Neeson was like, “Blackface? Hold my beer. I didn’t want to bring this up ever before, but I was trying to kill a black dude with a baseball bat. Anyhoo, so my movie comes out Friday.”Jost:Virginia Governor Ralph Northam is still refusing to resign after a racist photo from his yearbook surfaced. O.K., but if it was in a yearbook, how bad could it be? [The photograph is shown onscreen.] Oh. O.K. So, very bad. I knew it was a yearbook, but I didn’t know the year was 1870.A bit later, Jost added:Democrats are now calling for Northam to resign, but the second in line is embroiled in now two sexual assault scandals, and the third in line also did blackface. So at this point, maybe Virginia should take a cue from the Oscars and just go without a governor this year. Or they could just come full circle and make it Governor Kevin Hart.When Chris Redd, Jones, Thompson and Nwodim came on stage to celebrate Black History Month and pay homage to previous cast members like Garrett Morris, Eddie Murphy and Ellen Cleghorne, were you expecting a totally sincere tribute?The segment took a satirical turn with the entrance of Mooney, a white man, who claimed he wanted to support his co-stars but kept interrupting to explain black history to them.“Did you know African-American contributions to entertainment didn’t start with ‘Saturday Night Live’?” Mooney asked to their chagrin.“‘To Sir With Love’ was one of the best movies of the ’60s,” he added. “America was surprised to see a black leading man. But we always knew what we were capable of.”Addressing the other performers on the stage, Jones asked: “Did he say, ‘We’? He said, ‘We.’”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Patricia CohenGavin de Becker, Jeff Bezos’ longtime security chief, may run his own consulting firm, write books, operate a private luxury terminal at Los Angeles International Airport and develop threat-assessment tools.But he is really selling only one thing: peace of mind.For more than four decades, Mr. de Becker, 64, has counseled the United States government, law enforcement departments, thousands of celebrity clients and countless readers on how to ward off threats and stay safe in a scary world.His most recent case was for Mr. Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, who asked him to find out how American Media Inc., which publishes The National Enquirer, had obtained private intimate pictures of Mr. Bezos and his girlfriend, Lauren Sanchez.[Mr. Bezos’ claim brought intrigue and politics to The Enquirer’s exposure of his extramarital affair.]In a blog post on Medium on Thursday, Mr. Bezos said David J. Pecker, the chief executive of A.M.I., was trying to use the photos to blackmail him and deter him — and the news outlet he owns, The Washington Post — from investigating allegations that The Enquirer’s coverage of his affair was politically motivated.Mr. Bezos said he had asked Mr. de Becker “to proceed with whatever budget he needed.” Those are words that could inspire any employee. But Mr. de Becker has made the security of others his life’s work.His own childhood was full of the violence and fear that he is now paid to shield others from. Mr. de Becker has written that his mother, a heroin addict, regularly beat him and his sister, and shot his stepfather. She committed suicide when he was 16.He then moved in with the family of a friend from Beverly Hills High School, Miguel Ferrer, the son of the actor José Ferrer and the singer Rosemary Clooney. Ms. Clooney later gave him a job as her road manager. He went on to work as Elizabeth Taylor’s assistant. (Another close friend was the actress Carrie Fisher; he gave a eulogy at a memorial service in 2017 for Ms. Fisher and her actress mother, Debbie Reynolds, who died a day apart.)In an interview with The New York Times in 1997, Mr. de Becker said his experience with Taylor had led him to understand the perils of celebrity and the “marketing of human beings.”He has been enmeshed ever since. He has investigated stalkers for stars like Olivia Newton-John and Cher. He supervised security for public figures visiting President Ronald Reagan and his family at the White House. He worked with members of the family of Ronald L. Goldman when they sued O. J. Simpson over Mr. Goldman’s 1994 killing at the home of Mr. Simpson’s former wife. And he helped Bill and Camille Cosby when they received threatening letters after their son’s 1997 murder.For most people seeking Mr. de Becker’s advice, they can buy peace of mind for a few dollars with a paperback copy of his best seller, a book that Oprah Winfrey has gushed over, “The Gift of Fear.”For those who can afford it, there is a more hands-on option. Private Suite, the royal blue refuge Mr. de Becker created for wealthy travelers going through Los Angeles International Airport, get their own private suites, bathrooms and bag screeners for a $4,500 annual fee.“It typically takes 2,200 footsteps from car seat to plane seat,” the website boasts. “For members of the Private Suite, it’s 70 footsteps. And they are all peaceful footsteps.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byMediatorBy Jim RutenbergEven by the tweeting habits of the 45th president of the United States, it was a puzzler.Until you examined it. Then it started to make sense.A Twitter post on Sunday night showed Mr. Trump — in the middle of the longest federal government shutdown in American history — reveling in the lurid revelations surrounding the impending divorce of Jeff Bezos and his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie Bezos.In attacking the founder and chief executive of Amazon, President Trump praised The National Enquirer for publishing an article in its Jan. 28 edition with the all-caps headline: “BEZOS’ DIVORCE! THE CHEATING PHOTOS THAT ENDED HIS MARRIAGE.”In the same tweet — which made use of the sarcasm and schoolyard-style nicknaming that has endeared him to his base of supporters — the president saw fit to insult The Washington Post, the newspaper Mr. Bezos has owned since 2013.“So sorry to hear the news about Jeff Bozo being taken down by a competitor whose reporting, I understand, is far more accurate than the reporting in his lobbyist newspaper, the Amazon Washington Post.”Mr. Trump has attacked Mr. Bezos, Amazon and the newspaper since his presidential campaign, suggesting in the most un-Republican of ways — and falsely — that Mr. Bezos uses the newspaper as a lobbying arm to stave off higher taxes and antitrust enforcement for Amazon. To hammer home his unfounded theory, the president has referred to the paper as the Amazon Washington Post more than a dozen times since 2015, although Mr. Bezos, not the company, is the owner.That Mr. Trump would slap a childish sobriquet on a man he perceives as a threat is not news. (See Schiff, Adam, whose name the president spun into a vulgarity in a November tweet.) Nor is it news that he went after The Post — a newspaper that has been a thorough and aggressive chronicler of his presidency and the various investigations it has drawn.The news contained in the tweet on Sunday was something that, at first glance, may not seem like news at all: his praise for The Enquirer.Sure, The Enquirer turned itself into an effective cheering squad and opposition research shop for Mr. Trump before, during and after the presidential campaign. As part of the effort, the tabloid’s owner, American Media Inc., arranged to effectively silence Karen McDougal, a former Playboy model who claimed to have had an affair with Mr. Trump, with a $150,000 payout. And David J. Pecker, the chairman of American Media, was famously close to Mr. Trump.Emphasis on “was.”In recent weeks, Mr. Pecker has emerged as a cooperating witness in the federal investigation that prosecutors in the Southern District of New York are pursuing into the schemes to pay six figures to Ms. McDougal and Stormy Daniels, another woman whose story of an affair with Mr. Trump was buried by the company.In the Sunday-night tweet, Mr. Trump was effectively vouching for the credibility of Mr. Pecker and his newspaper — whose name in the Trump era hasn’t exactly been equated with accuracy. To wit, Hillary Clinton is still alive, proving that The Enquirer’s campaign-year reports of her imminent death were a bit of an exaggeration.Mr. Pecker’s word is of high value to prosecutors — and highly dangerous to Mr. Trump.Mr. Pecker provided vital corroboration for the story told by Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, Michael Cohen, when he pleaded guilty last year to arranging the payments to Ms. Daniels and Ms. McDougal.Mr. Cohen said he had arranged them with the full knowledge that they were equivalent to illegal campaign disbursements, because they were intended to help Mr. Trump win the election. He also said he had made the payments at Mr. Trump’s direction, essentially accusing his former boss of being the driving force behind the whole thing.In December, Mr. Cohen was sentenced to three years in prison on those charges and others. In a court filing provided ahead of that sentencing, the New York prosecutors disclosed the extent of American Media’s cooperation. The company’s willingness to help is why there have been no charges against those involved with the running of the tabloid, prosecutors said.The cooperation of American Media officers was highly significant, because Mr. Cohen made for a flawed witness. His long track record of lies meant anything he said to law enforcement officials would require corroboration, if it were to be of any real value.After months of public denials that the payment to Ms. McDougal had been coordinated with Mr. Trump or Mr. Cohen, American Media flipped the script, telling prosecutors that it had coughed up the cash “in cooperation, consultation and concert with, and at the request and suggestion of, one or more members or agents of” Mr. Trump’s campaign. The publisher also explained why it had done so — so that Ms. McDougal “did not publicize damaging allegations” and “thereby influence that election.”Further placing Mr. Trump at the center of the scheme, American Media told prosecutors that all the way back in August 2015, Mr. Pecker had met with Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen and “offered to help deal with negative stories about that presidential candidate’s relationships with women by, among other things, assisting the campaign in identifying such stories so they could be purchased and their publication avoided.” Mr. Cohen was Mr. Trump’s point man in the effort.That helped bolster the argument that Mr. Trump was effectively an unindicted co-conspirator, making Mr. Cohen, in Trump parlance — as well as that of Al Capone — “a rat.”That’s why the unreported speculation on cable news and social media last week that The Enquirer’s coverage of Mr. Bezos had been cooked up between Mr. Trump and American Media seemed out of whack to those of us who have covered the story.If facts come to light confirming that such a collaboration existed, it will be another jaw-dropper of a story. But for now, sans evidence, it seems that The Enquirer was fulfilling its traditional role of digging up dirt on the rich and famous when it went after Mr. Bezos.The president had other reasons to compliment the paper, however. American Media’s agreement with prosecutors extends for three years — and Mr. Pecker, as we’ve reported, is sitting on decades of Trump dirt that it refrained from publishing during the campaign. That means that he remains someone the president may want to keep on his good side, despite their recent differences. It’s worth noting that Mr. Trump has not publicly called Mr. Pecker a “co-rat,” at least so far.And there is this key dictum of Mr. Trump’s brand of politics: The enemy of my enemy is my friend, if only for a news cycle.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe conversationAnd it’s got a little bit of everything.By Gail Collins and Bret StephensMs. Collins and Mr. Stephens are opinion columnists. They converse every other week.Gail Collins: Bret, in honor of Valentine’s Day, I’m going to give you the gift of deciding what current event we should start off with. Virginia? Jeff Bezos? Trump investigations? Supreme Court? Rapidly exploding population of Democratic presidential candidates?Bret Stephens: Oh, Gail — that’s the most wonkishly romantic gesture I’ve ever heard. Maybe we should talk about Bezos, because it involves a lot of double entendres and it reads like the next installment in the E.L. James series. Let’s call it “50 Shades Richer.” Billionaires! Sex! Political intrigue! Allegations of blackmail! And a storybook villain named David Pecker, which is a name worthy of a Charles Dickens character.Gail: The Bezos story does have everything, including Donald Trump, whose great pals at The National Enquirer got hold of, um, embarrassing pictures Bezos exchanged with his girlfriend. Then according to Bezos — who’s the owner of The Washington Post — Pecker’s team threatened to make them public unless he said the National Enquirer’s stories about his sex life weren’t politically motivated.Several thoughts here. One is that even if you’re a super-billionaire, texting a “below the belt selfie” is a bad plan. But that aside, it seems as if Bezos has been handling the whole thing well. And third: Everything sleazy always seems to wind up with a Trump connection.Bret: Yes, Bezos has dealt with it brilliantly. It helps — how shall I put this delicately? — that his pride got the better of his embarrassment, and that there was nothing embarrassing about his pride.Gail: O.K., that’s a quote to remember.Bret: It also helps that Bezos has the financial means and journalistic tools to get to the bottom of the hacking. I don’t know if the government did the hacking — the truth is probably prosaic, but Pecker’s friendship with Trump raises an eyebrow — but if it did it would be a scandal for the ages.Gail: In an age when it’s hard to ignore any big political scandal, we’re going to be reminded of this one every time we see a package from Amazon, which is approximately every three waking minutes of the day.Bret: Even now the connections are tantalizing. Why is Pecker “apoplectic” about Bezos’ investigation into who leaked the story to the Enquirer and whether the leak was politically motivated? And how might the potential withdrawal of legal immunity that Pecker obtained last year in connection with his handling of Trump’s hush money payments to his mistresses affect the Southern District’s investigation of Trump’s probable violations of campaign-finance laws?Going forward, I think we need to start describing all of these ties as the Axis of Pecker. Just saying.Gail: Pecker politics definitely tops anything else we can possibly talk about. Still, I have to ask you about Virginia. You wrote a very powerful column taking the governor’s side. I wonder if that’s what convinced him to refuse to resign.Bret: Thanks, though I think he had made up his mind before my column appeared.Gail: But we may differ on this blackface thing. I came from a pretty conservative background but I can’t think of ever seeing anybody at my college putting shoe polish on their face or a sheet over their head under the theory that it would make them look cool. And Ralph Northam was in medical school! I know medical students aren’t all the omni-dedicated healers we saw on “E.R.” But good grief.Bret: I don’t know if we really differ. But I think context and intention matter. Billy Crystal did “blackface” for a Sammy Davis Jr. impression, and I don’t think Crystal is racist in any respect. Jimmy Fallon, Jimmy Kimmel and Sarah Silverman, to name a few boldface names, have all done blackface. If we’re going to start excommunicating people from public life for this, we’re going to destroy a lot of people who almost surely intended no harm.Gail: Yeah, but I don’t remember Billy Crystal doing his act with a guy wearing a sheet.Bret: That’s true. And I think that’s in a different league in terms of offensiveness. But again, I think we need to better understand the context, whether it was connected to a pattern of behavior, and whether it was ever repeated. And again, we are talking about an incident from 35 years ago followed by an admirable life without any hint of racial bias.Right now, Northam’s real moral jeopardy is that he has contradicted himself and is doing a duck-and-cover move. He has a good opportunity to rise above it, first by clarifying how exactly that photo ended up on his yearbook page — and whether he’s one of the people in the picture, as he now claims he isn’t — and then by explaining why the casual racism of a past generation mustn’t be communicated to the present.Gail: I do find it hard to believe he looked at that picture and said: “Who are these people? How did they get in my yearbook?” He’d be a gone goose now if the Legislature wasn’t busy talking about trying to impeach the lieutenant governor over some terrible allegations of sexual assault.Did you know Virginia has, for all practical purposes, a one-term limit for governors? I’m wondering if that has anything to do with all these crises.There was a time when I thought term limits were a great idea. But I’ve cooled on it. When you’ve got a politician who isn’t going to be able to run for re-election, you’ve got a politician spending a whole lot of time planning how to get the next job. Plus you get a lot of … strange people. Rest my case.Bret: Well, we agree on term limits. Let’s switch topics to oversight and investigations. I’m as eager as anyone to see what’s in Trump’s tax returns. But how do Democrats handle this to make sure it doesn’t redound to Trump’s political benefit?Gail: You mean how do they avoid having so many people investigating him the public begins to feel sorry for him?Bret: I mean, going down every rabbit hole means that you are going to come up empty many times. That can do as much to obscure criminal behavior as it can to expose it, and to desensitize the public to the significance of truly scandalous disclosures when they are merely bobbing in the sea with not-so-scandalous ones.It doesn’t help when cable TV is obsessing about this stuff 24/7. I think the investigations would be better helped if news about them came out only once every other week, with Representative Adam Schiff or someone like him saying: Here’s the stuff we’ve learned, here’s why it matters, here’s what we’re going to look into next and here’s why.Gail: Well, cable TV does cover other stuff — I’m just sitting here watching CNN cover climate change in Louisiana. But the producers know what the public is obsessing about, and so do politicians. When they see their constituents these days, the first question a lot of them get isn’t “How’s the infrastructure bill doing?” It’s “What are you going to do about Trump?”Not that I’m demeaning the poor infrastructure bill.Bret: I long for the days when we could debate the merits of, say, the Davis-Bacon Act, and not the emoluments clause and how Trump is probably violating it. That said, I do think people will ultimately judge Congress by whether it’s working for them and not on political score-settling.In the meantime, it looks like we may be heading for another government shutdown. Is this really happening? I didn’t realize it was possible for an administration to commit suicide twice.Gail: This administration? Hahahahahaha.I have hope we won’t smash into another shutdown, but it’s hard to tell. Right this second it looks like it’s not happening, but it’s complicated because Trump would have to accept what’s basically a face-saver on the wall issue. And give a little bit to the Democrats, who want to reform his mean, miserable border detention policies. In a normal world, that would happen. I miss the normal world.What do you think?Bret: I think Trump’s calculation is that he can do a Groundhog’s Day in reverse: That is, shut down the government again and again, and behave worse with each successive iteration. This rallies his base while, at some point a majority of Americans will say, “Just give him his darn wall.” Or so he figures. But we’ll have to see how he reacts to the “agreement in principle” that the House and Senate seem to have reached.Gail: Don’t think Bill Murray would like us turning over his “Groundhog Day” role to Donald Trump.Bret: The alternative narrative, and the more convincing one, is that Trump has continued to play games with the livelihoods of American workers for the sake of a bit of fencing that solves nothing except his own political problems. One thing that is becoming clear is the G.O.P. campaign theme for 2020. They are going to claim Democrats are the party of socialism, open borders, nationalized health care, and an environmentalist agenda that will wind up outlawing air travel and steaks and maybe even milk, too.Gail: The Republicans are indeed ranting now about the Green New Deal, which Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and other Democrats put forward. A.O.C. did mention eliminating “emissions from cows or air travel,” but — contrary to Trump’s swipes — that was a rather lighthearted description of a perfect future rather than a part of the plan.And Trump has been playing the socialism card, but I don’t think it’s going to work. There are a number of Democrats who’d like to move toward a society that offers health care for everyone, free college tuition for those who can’t afford to pay, and federal work programs for the unemployed — paid for by much higher taxes on the rich. Most Americans want the same things. If the Democrats are smart about the way they present the programs, things should be fine.I am aware, Bret, that this sort of talk causes you great pain. That’s why we’re in different political camps.Bret: It causes me great pain because I’m attached to no party: I can’t support the Trumpian G.O.P. but I can’t support the Democrats, either, as long as they’re repudiating their belief in traditional liberalism for the sake of an anticapitalist, ruinously expensive policy agenda. I would love to hear a Democrat say, as Hillary Clinton did, we are not Denmark! And I fear the Democrats’ new progressivism will so turn off voters that they’ll re-elect Trump as the better of two bad alternatives.All of which is to say, we’ll have plenty to converse about in the months ahead. And maybe we might even disagree a bit more.Gail: Amen.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Bret L. Stephens has been an Opinion columnist with The Times since April 2017. He won a Pulitzer Prize for commentary at The Wall Street Journal in 2013 and was previously editor in chief of The Jerusalem Post.  @BretStephensNYT • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Edmund Lee, Andrew Ross Sorkin and Ben ProtessThe National Enquirer, the supermarket tabloid that once published a photo of Elvis Presley in his coffin and later backed Donald J. Trump’s presidential campaign, is for sale, the publisher said in a statement.The Enquirer, owned by American Media Inc. and led by David J. Pecker, a longtime friend of Mr. Trump’s, is likely to have a buyer in a matter of days, according to two people with direct knowledge of the matter, who spoke on condition of anonymity to describe private negotiations.Mr. Pecker is said to have helped Mr. Trump’s candidacy through American Media’s deal to buy a story from Karen McDougal, a Playboy model who said she had an affair with the president. The company acquired her story for $150,000 and never published it, following a practice known in the tabloid business as catch-and-kill. Federal prosecutors from the Southern District of New York gave Mr. Pecker an immunity deal in its investigation of the arrangement.Prosecutors identified the $150,000 payment to Ms. McDougal as a political contribution made in violation of campaign finance law. Under a non-prosecution deal, American Media affirmed that it had made the payment to “influence the election.”That agreement, signed in September, stipulated that American Media “shall commit no crimes whatsoever” for three years, and that if it did, the company “shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which this office has knowledge.”The deal has put the company in a difficult position, now that federal prosecutors have started investigating claims by Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, that he had been threatened by American Media, according to two people with knowledge of the investigation.The inquiry into a possible attempt by American Media to pressure Mr. Bezos is still in an early phase, and Mr. Bezos is scheduled to meet with federal prosecutors in New York as early as this week to discuss their review of his claim, a person with knowledge of the matter said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to discuss an open investigation.The principal owner of American Media, the hedge fund Chatham Asset Management, led by Anthony Melchiorre, pushed Mr. Pecker to sell the tabloid after it found itself in the cross hairs of the federal investigation and at the receiving end of Mr. Bezos’ wrath. Mr. Melchiorre no longer saw an upside in being associated with The Enquirer, the people familiar with the matter said, and the tabloid’s financial losses provided further motivation for a sale.The Jan. 28 edition of The Enquirer, which hit supermarket racks on Jan. 10, ran an 11-page story on Mr. Bezos headlined “Bezos’ Divorce! The Cheating Photos That Ended His Marriage.” The accompanying article included furtively snapped photographs of Mr. Bezos in the company of his girlfriend, Lauren Sanchez, a former host of the Fox television show “So You Think You Can Dance.”Mr. Bezos, who is also the owner of The Washington Post, has been a target of Mr. Trump. In a tweet that was posted in the aftermath of The Enquirer’s report, the president simultaneously praised the tabloid while tossing an insulting nickname in the direction of Mr. Bezos, the world’s richest man.“So sorry to hear the news about Jeff Bozo being taken down by a competitor whose reporting, I understand, is far more accurate than the reporting in his lobbyist newspaper, the Amazon Washington Post,” he wrote in the Jan. 13 tweet. “Hopefully the paper will soon be placed in better & more responsible hands!”Weeks after the tabloid report was published, Mr. Bezos fired back, accusing American Media of “extortion and blackmail” in a wide-ranging blog post that questioned whether The Enquirer’s story about him was politically motivated. He also accused American Media of threatening to publish lewd photos of him, unless he publicly stated that the tabloid’s reporting on him was not motivated by political concerns.Federal prosecutors looking into Mr. Bezos’ accusation have yet to determine whether there are chargeable offenses. If they move forward, it could jeopardize American Media’s agreement in the case centered on the company’s involvement in the Trump campaign.The federal investigation into American Media’s work on behalf of the Trump campaign resulted in a guilty plea from Mr. Trump’s former lawyer and fixer, Michael D. Cohen, who said he had asked the company to pay Ms. McDougal at the president’s direction. In a separate hush-money deal, Mr. Cohen said, he helped arrange a payment to the adult film actress Stormy Daniels, who had also alleged that she had an affair with Mr. Trump.After the likely sale of The Enquirer, American Media will be paid a service fee as part of a shared-services agreement under which the new owner can save on printing costs, the people familiar with the possible deal said.In a statement, Mr. Pecker said that American Media had shifted its emphasis away from its tabloid publications, a group that includes Star, to its glossy magazines, such as Us Weekly and Men’s Journal, and various multimedia ventures. “Because of this focus, we feel the future opportunities with the tabloids can be best exploited by a different ownership,” the statement said.Chatham could not immediately be reached for comment. American Media did not respond to a request for comment. News of the likely sale was first reported by The Washington Post.For many years leading up to the 2016 election, The Enquirer seemed all but irrelevant, a relic of a bygone time that had little to do with a media environment dominated by social media platforms and websites geared to ever-quickening news cycles.Mr. Trump’s presidential candidacy put it back in the limelight. Here was a tabloid creature at the center of the national conversation, and The Enquirer rose to the occasion by puffing up his candidacy and pillorying his rivals.As the campaign heated up, all-caps headlines shouted at shoppers from eye-level racks in supermarket checkout lanes.When Senator Ted Cruz of Texas looked like Mr. Trump’s most formidable opponent in his quest for the Republican nomination, The Enquirer published a false story headlined “Ted Cruz Father Linked to J.F.K. Assassination!” In another story aimed at the senator, the tabloid published unsubstantiated allegations of his supposed extramarital affairs.The Enquirer also went after Hillary Clinton. While Mr. Trump repeatedly questioned her stamina, the tabloid echoed the theme in false story after false story: “Hillary Clinton Brain Cancer Drama!”; “Hillary: Six Months to Live!”In another assist to the mogul turned politician, Mr. Pecker kept his staff from making use of the tips and story files it had amassed on Mr. Trump going back to the 1980s.The bond between the candidate and the tabloid also led American Media, in the campaign’s final months, to buy and bury the story of the alleged affair between Mr. Trump and Ms. McDougal. To pull it off, American Media acquired the rights in exchange for $150,000 and a commitment to promote Ms. McDougal’s career as a fitness specialist.Mr. Trump has been a longtime public supporter of Mr. Pecker and the tabloid he has overseen since 1999. In a 2013 tweet, Mr. Trump promoted the media executive as a possible leader of Time Inc.: “David Pecker would be a brilliant choice as CEO of TIME Magazine — nobody could bring it back like David!”During the campaign, after The Enquirer focused on Mr. Cruz, Mr. Trump denied having anything to do with the story, but said of the tabloid, “They actually have a very good record of being right.”Jim Rutenberg and William K. Rashbaum contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON — Jeff Bezos understands survival instincts.As a hedge fund refugee, he conjured Amazon, the world’s biggest store, by tapping into our hunter-gatherer instincts, the compulsion to collect more stuff with less effort.Amazon became “the Prince of Darkness for retail,” Scott Galloway writes in “The Four: The Hidden DNA of Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google,” by exploiting our “serious mojo for stuff, as survival went to the cave man who had the most twigs, had the right rocks to crack stuff open with, and got the most colorful mud to draw images on walls so his descendants knew when to plant crops, or what dangerous animals to avoid.”So, of course, Bezos has finely honed survival instincts himself. This is a season when socialism is chic and billionaires are reviled as lame, immoral, greedy, lying and an Orange Menace (if he’s actually a billionaire). Yet the richest dude on earth has managed to come through a traumatic week inspiring admiration.He survived a spectacular attempt by David Pecker to ruin him in January with a National Enquirer story revealing his affair with his married neighbor, Lauren Sanchez, a TV personality. It was humiliating for him and his wife, MacKenzie, but Bezos was able to bring his marriage to an end with a modicum of dignity and little apparent damage to shareholder value.In our universe governed by algorithms, we can forget our nerdy overlords are actually human. Bezos’ sexts were brimming with romance: “I want to talk to you and plan with you. Listen and laugh.” Or another about his yearning to wake up next to her, have coffee and read the paper — The Washington Post, presumably.This past week, Pecker and his thugs upgraded to blackmail, threatening to print more sexts and louche pics that Bezos and Sanchez had exchanged unless Bezos made a statement in the press rebutting the idea that the Enquirer story was politically motivated.Again, Bezos’ superior survival instincts kicked in. He refused.Pecker is up to his slimy neck in politically motivated messes. He had to make a deal with prosecutors after he helped deliver his pal Donald Trump’s hush payments to the Playboy model and the porn star. The Dickensian-named head of American Media Incorporated, The Enquirer’s owner, was “apoplectic,” according to Bezos’ post in Medium, about his investigation into who leaked the texts.“I prefer to stand up, roll this log over, and see what crawls out,” Bezos wrote.And thus a P.R. debacle turned into a triumph. Besides unbridled consumerism, Americans love nothing more than seeing a bully like Pecker get kicked in the groin.Bezos may be a key player in the Silicon Valley scheme to destroy privacy and ratchet up excess in the interest of mammonism, but for the moment, he’s a hero.“If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion,” he wrote, “how many people can?”As Galloway told me: “The second-worst decision in the last 12 months was the world’s wealthiest man sending out pictures of his genitalia. The worst decision was A.M.I. deciding to attempt to blackmail the wealthiest man in the world via email. Dumb and dumber.“A.M.I. went out of business this week. They just don’t know it. They have a megalodon after them.”Galloway thinks that Bezos vs. Pecker will mimic Thiel vs. Gawker: “The same hubris infected Gawker, wrapping yourself in the First Amendment as an excuse for depraved behavior and ruining people’s lives. That dog will no longer hunt.”Bezos said there may be another rotten international conspiracy akin to the Russians and the Trump campaign — this one connecting Pecker, Trump and the Saudis.Just before Saudi Arabian Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman came to America, Pecker — who wanted the Saudis to help finance the purchase of Time magazine — published an absurd piece of checkout-aisle propaganda, a glossy magazine treating the prince like Beyoncé and calling his repressive, misogynist nation the “Magic Kingdom.” It highlighted the special relationship between the Saudis and Trump, who was also lavished with puff pieces in The Enquirer during the 2016 campaign.The crown prince has formed a tight bond with princeling Jared Kushner, one that proves ever more embarrassing as the evidence piles up that bin Salman ordered the horrendous murder of Washington Post columnist Jamal Khashoggi. The Times’s Mark Mazzetti revealed that the psycho prince told an aide in 2017 that he would use “a bullet” on Khashoggi if the writer did not stop his critiques. Saudi Foreign Affairs Minister Adel al-Jubeir told reporters Friday, “Mistakes happen.”Coining the word of the year, Bezos said that owning The Post is a “complexifier” for him, suggesting that the paper’s unrelenting coverage of the Khashoggi killing might have aggravated his testy relations with Trump.The Post reported that Michael Sanchez, Lauren’s brother who says he is also her manager — and who is close to Roger Stone and Carter Page — said he was told by several people at A.M.I. that The Enquirer wanted to do “a takedown to make Trump happy.”The toxic triangle of Pecker, the Saudis and Trumpworld has yet to unspool. But Galloway is right when he notes that, “despite the gross idolatry of billionaire innovators, he is an incredibly impressive person. You can get ‘The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel’ or Nespresso pods on demand.”I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionKara SwisherAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]After multiple conversations this week with Amazon officials, Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo wanted to show them just how much support for the company there really was in New York City.So after those calls — including one with the Amazon chief executive, Jeff Bezos — the governor’s top aide, Melissa DeRosa, spoke with the president of the city’s pre-eminent business group, the Partnership for New York City, about how to follow up. They quickly settled on a strategy for a letter addressed to Mr. Bezos that would appear as a full-page newspaper advertisement.Time was of the essence.By Wednesday, emails began flying; phones were ringing seemingly everywhere, from union halls and public housing apartments to executive suites of companies like Goldman Sachs and Warby Parker and the offices of local congressional representatives.In some cases, the pitch came from Ms. DeRosa. In many others, it came from the president of the partnership, Kathryn Wylde, whose group paid for the ad.“I wanted the letter to symbolize that New Yorkers of diverse backgrounds know how to work together,” said Ms. Wylde, who came up with the idea for the letter.Others, particularly businesses in or near Long Island City, Queens, where Amazon canceled plans for a headquarters last month, learned about the impending letter from Elizabeth Lusskin, the president of the Long Island City Partnership.“The idea was to put together a diverse range of voices in a short amount of time,” said Ms. Lusskin, who was asked to help on Thursday morning. “There are many, many more people who would have, if asked, been part of this. We were trying to get together a broad range.”Six people described the efforts to create the letter, but some would only do so on the condition of anonymity. One person said the call to Mr. Bezos took place on Tuesday; the person said on Friday that Mr. Bezos had seen the ad.Unions that had not previously expressed a position on Amazon signed on, including the New York branch of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., the Hotel Trades Council, which represents hotel workers, and unions representing teachers and hospital workers.“Every worker has the right to organize, but we know that having a job is essential to that process,” George Gresham, the president of 1199 Service Employees International Union, said in a statement.Not every union that got a call decided to add its name, according to two union officials who said Ms. DeRosa, along with Ms. Wylde, had reached out. Several people said they had received a call to add their names to the letter with only a few hours to decide whether to sign; others were given a little more time.A spokeswoman for the governor, Dani Lever, disputed the union officials’ account, saying that no one Ms. DeRosa called had said no.By Thursday afternoon, more than 70 signatories had joined, including public housing tenant leaders, the local N.A.A.C.P. chapter, pastors, as well as businesses in Queens.There was no evidence that the letter, which appeared as a full-page ad in The New York Times on Friday, had changed Amazon’s decision to abandon the deal, in which the company promised to create up to 40,000 jobs in Long Island City in exchange for a state grant of $500 million and state and city tax breaks that would have eventually totaled more than $2 billion.On Friday, the governor told WNYC’s Brian Lehrer that the company had not conveyed any change of heart. “I have no reason to believe that Amazon is reconsidering,” Mr. Cuomo said. “Would I like them to? Certainly.”But the letter may have tempered some of the political opposition to the Amazon plan; as the contents of the letter and breadth of support became known, many of the voices of opposition grew silent or appeared to soften their messages.The local elected officials who had been most critical of the deal — State Senator Michael Gianaris and City Councilman Jimmy Van Bramer — declined to comment in response to Mr. Cuomo’s efforts to lure the company back.State Senator Leroy Comrie, a Queens Democrat who recently replaced Mr. Gianaris as the nominee to the obscure but powerful Public Authorities Control Board (it would have had veto power over the Amazon deal), issued a statement on Friday that stressed his willingness to work with Amazon.“I was disappointed in Amazon’s retreat rather than choosing to work together to address the concerns of the affected communities, and ensure the best outcome for New York taxpayers,” Mr. Comrie said. “If Amazon chooses to come back I would be glad to work with them.”Even the office of Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, whose surprise win last year helped galvanize resistance to the company, and whose opposition to Amazon led to a Times Square billboard blaming her for the pullout, seemed to be more measured in its comments.“If elected officials spent half as much time talking to the community as to Jeff Bezos, I think we would already have come to an agreement that works for everybody,” Corbin Trent, a spokesman for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, said.Mr. Cuomo, in the radio interview, sought to diminish the importance of Amazon’s most strident opponents; he called Mr. Van Bramer and Mr. Gianaris “irrelevant,” adding that “there are other ways that the state can get it done. I told Amazon that.”The governor was even more dismissive of Make the Road New York, a coalition representing minority and working-class New Yorkers that opposed the Amazon deal, saying he did not know what the group was.The group was one of 78 associations that co-signed their own letter, released on Friday, reiterating their opposition to any economic development plan that “excludes investments in local communities,” citing what they said was “Amazon’s predatory practices.”Mr. Cuomo was particularly unpersuaded.“This is a blow to the state, and I’ll do everything I can to reverse it,” he said. “You punch until you hear the bell, and the bell hasn’t sounded.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - American Media Inc (AMI) said on Thursday it was selling its National Enquirer tabloid to James Cohen, whose family owns a magazine distributor and used to own the Hudson chain of airport newsstands.The National Enquirer had admitted to paying hush money to help U.S. President Donald Trump get elected and been accused of attempting to blackmail Amazon founder Jeff Bezos.The weekly tabloid, along with two of its sister publications, will be purchased by Cohen. The Washington Post reported the sale was for $100 million. The companies did not respond to Reuters' request for comment on the price.Cohen's family owns a U.S. magazine and book distributor, Hudson News Distributors. In 2008, the family sold the airport retail and newsstand business to Dufry AG.The deal comes a week after AMI said it was looking at ""strategic options"" for the National Enquirer as well as for the Globe and National Examiner brands.The sale is expected to reduce AMI's debt to $355 million.Last week, the New York Times reported that owners of the National Enquirer were in talks to sell the tabloid to California-based billionaire Ronald Burkle.Paul Pope, one of the heirs of the National Enquirer founder, Generoso Pope Jr., had also been in the list of bidders, according to media reports.On Tuesday, Pope dropped his bid to buy the supermarket tabloid from American Media, the New York Post reported.Over its 92-year history, the National Enquirer has enticed readers in supermarket checkout lines with sensational headlines and photos about celebrities. The tabloid's website says it has an audience of 5 million.Earlier in February, Bezos, the chief executive of Amazon.com Inc, accused the publication of trying to blackmail him with the threat of publishing intimate photos. AMI has defended its reporting on Bezos' affair with Lauren Sanchez, a former television anchor. (Reporting by Arjun Panchadar and Vibhuti Sharma in Bengaluru, Additional reporting by Aishwarya Venugopal; Editing by James Emmanuel and Peter Cooney)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGovernor Cuomo is right to try to resuscitate a deal that could help New York.By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.It is heartening to hear that Gov. Andrew Cuomo was at least able to get Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder, on the phone.The Times reported that the governor has had “multiple phone conversations with Amazon executives, including Mr. Bezos, over the past two weeks.”The conspicuous absence of Mr. Bezos, both in public and private, during the process to bring part of his company’s new headquarters to Long Island City, Queens, was perfectly illustrative of the collapse in communication among all parties that scuttled the deal last month.There is no indication that Amazon is open to reopening talks about the project. But if a few tête-à-têtes might revive a deal worth $27 billion in potential tax revenue over the next two decades and 25,000 jobs, it’s certainly worth a try.An open letter that ran as a full-page ad in The Times on Friday, promised that Mr. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio would help shepherd the project through the community development and approval process, hopefully with far more transparency and far better communication than there was during the first go-round. In another development, State Senator Michael Gianaris of Queens, an outspoken critic of the deal, is no longer nominated to to sit on the Public Authorities Control Board, which would have the ability to deep-six any final deal. The open letter, which was signed by more than 70 unions, current and former elected officials and business and community groups, acknowledged that the public debate was more like a one-sided shouting match. “We know the public debate that followed the announcement of the Long Island City project was rough and not very welcoming,” the letter said. “Opinions are strong in New York — sometimes strident.”But vigorous democracy and vigorous capitalism should be able to coexist. That would be an important lesson for Amazon, which pressured city officials in Seattle — its hometown — to repeal a business tax for housing and homeless service.Those opposed to the New York project — a distinct minority of people in the city and the state — were not without cause for rage. The subways are rickety, the schools are dysfunctional, the rent is too damn high and getting higher. And the deal included $3 billion in tax benefits for a trillion-dollar corporation.But progressives shouldn’t stand athwart progress, yelling stop. It’s not like that $3 billion can now be applied to city needs, as some seemed to think; it vanished along with the $27 billion in tax revenue that could, in fact, have helped address city needs. If New York has any hope of remedying its problems, it will need a robust tax base spread across many sectors. Real-world progressive governance requires revenue. It would be good to see the governor and the mayor working the phones with Amazon. Let’s hope they’re also talking with their constituents — friend and foe alike — to make sure that a solid foundation is ready if the company decides to reconsider.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this editorial referred imprecisely to GovernorCuomo and Mayor de Blasio's outreach to Amazon. An open letter toAmazon that was published as an advertisement in The Times on Fridaypromised that the mayor and governor would help shepherd the projectthrough the approval process, they themselves did not make thatpromise in the letter.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byElizabeth Warren’s brushback pitch was aimed at candidates rich enough to self-fund their campaigns. But this kind of binary thinking is a slight to history. By Timothy EganContributing Opinion Writer What would you do if you could spend a billion dollars a week on any cause, political movement or society-improving innovation of your choice and still have almost $20 billion left over after a year?Such is the happy problem that may soon be facing MacKenzie Bezos, one-half of the richest couple on earth. She and her husband, the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, recently announced plans to divorce after 25 years of marriage.With half of the family fortune, Ms. Bezos would be worth about $70 billion, solidifying a title she may already hold — the richest woman in the world.We don’t know her politics or her intentions. The Bezoses have spent money supporting same-sex marriage, early education and help for homeless families. Jeff Bezos is a quirky libertarian, and his Washington Post has been a scrappy counter to a president who has made a punching bag out of the Constitution.But it’s crucial that the Democratic Party, now going through another torturous fight between its soak-the-rich side and the progressive pragmatists, remain open to enlightened people of wealth.“No to the billionaires,” Senator Elizabeth Warren said in the first days of her campaign for president. “We are the Democratic Party and that is the party of the people.”Her brushback pitch was aimed at candidates rich enough to self-fund their campaigns, like Michael Bloomberg. But this kind of binary thinking is a slight to history. The best president of the 20th century, Franklin Roosevelt, was a product of dynastic family wealth, as was John Kennedy. The Obamas, with their newfound riches from books and ventures into the entertainment industry, will soon have the kind of money to draw snark from the socialist wing of their party.And Warren may have missed the announcement of another rich guy running for president as a Democrat, the venture capitalist Andrew Yang. He’s campaigning on a plan to guarantee every American aged 18 to 64 a basic income of $1,000 a month, paid for by a new tax on companies benefiting most from automation.I know, I know: The last thing a country struggling with Neo-Gilded Age inequality needs is more influence from billionaire supercitizens. It’s bad enough that the Koch brothers bought themselves a budget-busting tax cut and an energy policy hatched in their corporate boardroom. An 85-year-old casino magnate, Sheldon Adelson, now has more influence on American foreign policy than even the secretary of state, the Koch tool Mike Pompeo.But the Kochs pay for politicians in order to enrich themselves and to gut regulations affecting the polluting industries that made them billionaires. Adelson got a similar tax windfall for the millions he put into electing Republicans, with the added benefit of controlling the State Department’s view of Israel.The progressive billionaires — Oprah Winfrey, Warren Buffett — are a different breed of fat cat. Mr. Buffett, the third-richest man in the world, has been saying “Tax me more” for years — or at least, “Tax me at the same rate as my secretary.” Like Bill Gates, who is the second-richest man in the world, he has pledged to give away the bulk of his fortune.Last year, Tom Steyer spent more than $100 million of his own money helping Democrats get elected, and he says he will drop another bundle on Senate races in 2020. Look what he got for his Democratic House: new members calling for a 70 percent tax rate on earnings over $10 million. Steyer, Gates and Buffett are going to get soaked for their political passions. And good for them.The same goes for Bloomberg. He also spent more than $100 million last year on behalf of Democrats, and ballot initiatives on gun regulations and climate change. This got him a kick in the teeth from the Warren crowd.God knows why George Soros continues to pour millions into promoting democracy abroad and going after hate speech at home. For that, he’s a target of crazed bombers and a victim of verbal poison from the likes of people such as the actor James Woods. Just a few days ago, Woods called Soros a “grizzled old Nazi prick” in a tweet. As a Hungarian Jew, Soros the boy had to hide from the Nazis.The ideal financing model is one perfected by Beto O’Rourke. He raised $80 million, without sucking up to PACs or corporate donors, and nearly knocked off the most hated man in the Senate, Ted Cruz of Texas.But we don’t live in an ideal world. Which brings us back to MacKenzie Bezos, a novelist of some acclaim. She may well follow the lead of Laurene Powell Jobs, widow of the Apple co-founder, whose political spending has been aimed at recruiting Democratic female candidates.I would bet that the time Ms. Bezos spent studying creative writing at Princeton under Toni Morrison did not make her want to build a wall or turn a blind eye to climate change. If her heart is open to benevolence for the greater good, then the least the Democrats can do is not close the door.I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan).Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kaly SotoWelcome to the weekend. For much of the U.S., it will be cold and messy. Don’t despair because we have some great journalism to keep you warm.The effects of head trauma have gotten much of the attention, but huge weight gains have also damaged N.F.L. retirees._____Geneticists have begun using old bones to make sweeping claims about the distant past. But their revisions to the human story are making some scholars of prehistory uneasy._____Just over 100 years ago, the first woman was sworn into Congress. As of this month, a record 131 women are serving in the Legislature. The New York Times photographed them._____Her divorce from the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos has made this novelist, and her private life, a public fascination._____Glaciers are crucial sources of water for people and crops in Central Asia. But global warming is causing glaciers there and around the world to shrink every year.[Also read: “Reflections on Antarctica”]_____Investigative reports detail increasing pressure felt by Jennifer and Sarah Hart, who had adopted six children. At signs of trouble, they would close ranks and flee._____Restaurants have fed them for free. Banks have suspended late fees on their credit cards. And at airports, they’ve been offered hugs, encouragement and casseroles._____For her first Times review as our California restaurant critic, Tejal Rao chose Angler in San Francisco. There, the chef Joshua Skenes is showing how a seafood-rich menu can adapt to the forces of climate change, she writes._____Andrew Barth Feldman, a high school junior on Long Island, is an ardent theater fan who has been acting since he was 8. Now he’ll be leading the cast in his favorite show._____Many of us have learned that happiness is a skill and a choice._____Two male penguins are raising a baby whose gender is unknown.Find me on Twitter: @kalyTsoto, for more great reads.Advertisement"
" Immediately after the Golden Globes, winners and losers fanned out across the Beverly Hilton Hotel for various after-parties. Rachel Brosnahan, who won the best actress award for “The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel,” made her way to the party hosted by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, which bestows the awards.Rachel Brosnahan, Regina King, Timothée Chalamet and Jeff Bezos partied after the awards ceremony."
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Edmund LeeThe National Enquirer, President Trump’s favorite supermarket tabloid, is about to have a new owner: James Cohen, a son of the founder of the Hudson News franchise. American Media Inc., The Enquirer’s publisher, announced the deal Thursday.The money-losing title was put up for sale several weeks ago, after its principal owner decided it no longer wanted to be associated with the magazine, according to several people familiar with the matter. The publication attracted the scrutiny of federal investigators for its role in the 2016 presidential campaign.American Media had been in talks with several potential buyers, including the California billionaire Ronald W. Burkle. After those talks fell apart last week, Mr. Cohen, whose father started the chain of Hudson News shops, swooped in to buy the troubled tabloid.As part of the deal, American Media, led by David J. Pecker, a longtime friend of Mr. Trump’s, has also agreed to sell two of its other tabloids: the Globe and the National Examiner. The Washington Post first reported the sale, which it pegged at $100 million.The principal owner of American Media, the hedge fund Chatham Asset Management, led by Anthony Melchiorre, pushed Mr. Pecker to sell The Enquirer after the publication found itself under federal investigation. Mr. Melchiorre no longer saw an upside in being associated with the tabloid, whose financial losses and falling circulation numbers provided further motivation for a sale.Mr. Pecker is said to have helped Mr. Trump’s candidacy through a deal American Media struck with Karen McDougal, a Playboy model who said she had an affair with the president. The company acquired her story for $150,000 and never published it, a practice known in the tabloid business as catch-and-kill. Federal prosecutors from the Southern District of New York gave Mr. Pecker an immunity deal in its investigation of the arrangement.American Media also signed a non-prosecution deal with federal prosecutors. As part of the agreement, the company affirmed that it had made the payment to Ms. McDougal to “influence the election.” The deal, signed in September, also stipulated that American Media “shall commit no crimes whatsoever” for three years and that, if it did, the company “shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which this office has knowledge.”That agreement put American Media in a ticklish position, now that federal prosecutors have started investigating claims by Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, that he was threatened by the company. Mr. Bezos was the subject of an 11-page Enquirer investigation headlined “Bezos’ Divorce! The Cheating Photos That Ended His Marriage.” In a lengthy blog post a month after the article appeared, Mr. Bezos accused American Media of extortion.Hudson News, founded by Mr. Cohen’s father, Robert B. Cohen, was sold to the Swiss retail company Dufry in 2008. Mr. Cohen is no longer involved in the chain of newspaper and magazine shops but sits on the board of the new parent company.The first Hudson News outlet appeared at Newark Liberty International Airport in the 1970s when Mr. Cohen’s father acquired a newsstand out of bankruptcy. In 1987, a large, brightly lit Hudson News store opened at La Guardia Airport, with hundreds of publications from around the world displayed, their covers easily visible. That setup became the standard for the chain, and there are now more than 1,000 locations.Recently, James Cohen founded a magazine company, Hudson Publishing. In 2016 he started a quarterly publication called Galerie with his wife, Lisa Fayne Cohen. Earlier this year, the magazine published a feature titled “Discover a Hamptons Dream House Filled With Modern Art.” Its subject was the Cohens’ East Hampton, N.Y., home. Ms. Fayne Cohen serves as the magazine’s editorial director.Mr. Cohen and Ms. Fayne Cohen started a serious art collection in 2009. Their condominium at the Plaza Hotel has included works by the artists Willem de Kooning, Jean Dubuffet, Hans Hofmann, Joan Mitchell, George Condo and Mark Grotjahn.In 2015 they threw a bat mitzvah for their daughter Jaclyn at a reported cost of over $1 million. The event, which took place under a tent at their home in northern New Jersey, featured the singer Nick Jonas, who performed six of his hits for a reported $300,000.Mr. Cohen, who did not respond to requests for comment, has a tabloid connection. His late sister, Claudia Cohen, was a gossip writer for both The Daily News and The New York Post. She was married to the Revlon billionaire Ronald O. Perelman.In 2014, years after Claudia Cohen’s death, Mr. Cohen was sued by her daughter Samantha Perelman and accused of edging her out of an inheritance from the Hudson News fortune. Ms. Perelman claimed her uncle had unfairly manipulated her dying grandfather to cut her out of his will.Mr. Cohen won the suit. In a statement at the time he said he had been “cruelly and wrongfully accused.”In 2012, Mr. Cohen invested in DuJour, a lifestyle quarterly published by Jason Binn, a founder of regional glossies such as Hamptons, Ocean Drive and Gotham.Mr. Cohen and Mr. Pecker, the American Media chief, have done business before. In 2011, Mr. Cohen was an investor in the company’s American edition of OK!, a British tabloid magazine.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Edmund Lee and Andrew Ross SorkinThe owners of The National Enquirer have been in talks to sell the tabloid to Ronald W. Burkle, a supermarket magnate with ties to President Bill Clinton, according to three people with direct knowledge of the negotiations.While representatives of The Enquirer, which is owned by American Media Inc., have been in negotiations with Mr. Burkle’s team, the deal could fall apart, said the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe private negotiations.Mr. Burkle, who specializes in buying distressed companies, made his initial fortune buying and selling supermarkets in California. In 1999, he helped buy the Pittsburgh Penguins hockey franchise out of bankruptcy; the team has won three Stanley Cup championships since then. In recent years, Mr. Burkle has been a regular in the gossip pages and on the A-list benefit and party circuit, hobnobbing with the likes of Madonna, U2, Sean Combs, Leonardo DiCaprio and Sarah Ferguson, the Duchess of York.Mr. Burkle and his private equity firm, Yucaipa Companies, did not initially respond to requests for comment. After news of the talks was reported by The New York Times on Thursday, a representative said Mr. Burkle and Yucaipa were not interested in The Enquirer. “Ron Burkle and Yucaipa are not buying The Enquirer,” Frank Quintero, who works at the firm, said in an email. “Furthermore, I’m told we are not in talks to buy it.”The disclosure of the talks threatened to scuttle them, leaving both sides frustrated that the news had leaked. Two people with direct knowledge of the talks said Mr. Burkle’s team was upset that news of their involvement had been made public, and they felt used by AMI. It is unclear what will happen next, but AMI was pushing to continue the talks.Mr. Burkle and David J. Pecker, American Media’s chief executive, are said to be friends and have invested in media deals together. Both backed Radar magazine, a short-lived title focused on celebrity and lifestyle that closed in 2008. In his Radar days, Mr. Burkle remained in the shadows, and Yusef Jackson, the son of the civil rights activist Jesse Jackson, was the magazine’s public face.An acquisition of The Enquirer by Mr. Burkle, a longtime Democratic donor, could raise eyebrows in Washington, given President Trump’s fondness for the tabloid, which he has praised on Twitter.The Enquirer, which loses money, drew the attention of federal prosecutors for its role in aiding Mr. Trump’s 2016 campaign. Mr. Pecker was said to have helped Mr. Trump’s candidacy through a deal to buy a story from a Playboy model who said she had an affair with Mr. Trump.American Media acquired the story for $150,000 and never published it, following a tabloid industry practice known as catch-and-kill. Federal prosecutors in New York gave Mr. Pecker an immunity deal in its investigation of the arrangement.American Media’s principal owner, the hedge fund Chatham Asset Management, pressed Mr. Pecker to sell the tabloid after it wound up in investigators’ cross hairs, the people with direct knowledge of the matter said.The hedge fund’s managing partner, Anthony Melchiorre, decided there was no longer a benefit in being associated with The Enquirer. The financial losses provided further motivation for a sale.Mr. Burkle is not unfamiliar with the rough-and-tumble of tabloid culture. In 2006, he accused a New York Post gossip columnist of demanding a hush payment of hundreds of thousands of dollars to prevent the publication of items about his personal life.Years earlier, he told federal investigators that the Hollywood private detective Anthony Pellicano had demanded that Mr. Burkle pay as much as $250,000 in exchange for Mr. Pellicano’s agreeing not to investigate him. Mr. Burkle told the F.B.I. that he ultimately became friendly with Mr. Pellicano, providing him with favors.When Mr. Clinton left office in 2001, he agreed to be an adviser to Mr. Burkle’s investment firm, an arrangement with the potential to yield tens of millions of dollars for the former president. Mr. Clinton’s role at the time was to help find investment opportunities for Yucaipa and to offer the firm a sheen of credibility.Mr. Trump also calls Mr. Burkle a friend. In October 2017, at a White House event celebrating the Penguins’ Stanley Cup victory, the president praised Mr. Burkle as “a great, great negotiator,” and jokingly asked him to help renegotiate some trade deals for the United States.Mr. Burkle has been a staunch supporter of labor unions and is a fixture in Los Angeles fund-raising circles. He is a trustee of the National Urban League and a nonprofit focused on human rights started by President Jimmy Carter and his wife, Rosalynn.Mr. Burkle has flirted with buying news media companies in the past. He explored making bids for The Wall Street Journal and the Knight-Ridder newspaper chain before backing out. His recent acquisitions have included a controlling interest in the Soho House Group, which runs a line of members-only clubs.Mr. Burkle’s attempts to close high-profile deals have fizzled in the past. Mr. Burkle and another investor agreed to a $500 million deal to buy the Weinstein Company last year, only to pull out at the 11th hour. A Dallas-based investment group eventually won rights to the studio.After The Enquirer drew the attention of law enforcement, American Media signed a non-prosecution deal with federal prosecutors. As part of the agreement, the company affirmed that it had made the payment to the Playboy model, Karen McDougal, to “influence the election.” The deal, signed in September, also stipulated that American Media “shall commit no crimes whatsoever” for three years and that, if it did, the company “shall thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal criminal violation of which this office has knowledge.”That agreement has put American Media in a difficult position, now that federal prosecutors have started investigating claims by Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, that he was threatened by the company, according to two people with knowledge of the investigation. Mr. Bezos, who accused American Media of extortion in a blog post, is to meet with federal prosecutors in New York as early as this week, one of the people said.The feud between Mr. Bezos and American Media goes back to January, when The Enquirer ran an 11-page story headlined “Bezos’ Divorce! The Cheating Photos That Ended His Marriage.” The article included furtively snapped photographs of Mr. Bezos in the company of his girlfriend, Lauren Sanchez, and transcriptions of the multibillionaire’s amorous texts.Despite his interest in media properties, Mr. Burkle has granted interviews infrequently.“It doesn’t do me any good for people to know about me or know what I’m doing,” he said in a rare interview with Talk magazine over a decade ago. “If you’re low key, I think you can get a lot more done.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Shasta DarlingtonSÃO PAULO, Brazil — Amazon is the world’s biggest online retailer. It is also the world’s largest rain forest.The question is who owns the name.This is the core of an epic battle between the tech behemoth Amazon.com and eight South American countries that contain parts of the rain forest.At stake is the domain name .amazon, and who should control it on the internet.Amazon.com could use the name to advance its branding and marketing. But the nations objecting to the company’s request are concerned about a corporation symbolically taking control of a name synonymous with their heritage, as well as more mundane matters like whether their own tourism industries would lose the opportunity to use trip.amazon, hotels.amazon and other domain names.“It’s technical, but it’s also very emotional,” said Achilles Emilio Zaluar Neto, the director of technology issues at Brazil’s Foreign Ministry, noting that Jeff Bezos, Amazon.com’s founder, named his company after the Amazon River.“We’ve heard strong speeches from politicians in the Amazon,” he said. “They feel that in symbolic terms their heritage is being taken away by a company.”The clash traces to 2012, when Amazon.com applied to the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (Icann), the independent body that oversees global Web addresses, to use the domain name, .amazon.Brazil and Peru, two of the countries that are part of the Amazon Basin region, protested to Icann, which makes the final decision on such matters. Eventually Colombia, Ecuador, Bolivia, Venezuela, Guyana and Suriname also joined forces to block the company’s bid.“It’s not the classic issue of two different parties applying for the same name,” said Rodrigo de la Parra, the regional vice president for Latin America and the Caribbean at Icann. “The governments didn’t apply for .amazon — they only have concerns about its usage by a private company given its cultural and natural heritage for the region.”In some ways, the debate is similar to those over trademark issues, but it is taking place in the limitless and relatively new space of the internet, where the rules are still being devised.It began at a time when the number of internet names was expanding rapidly. Many new country codes like .ca, for Canada, were registered years ago. Then, in 2012, as many as 2,000 requests for top-level domains were made for brand names like .avianca, as well as for names like .lawyer and .gay, and for geographic names like .nyc.Amazon.com was a very active participant in the 2012 internet land grab aimed at seizing territory and control. The company not only put in a bid for .amazon, but it also applied for .shop, .game, .mobile, .free and a host of other domain names.“We spent eight years defining the rules and evicting cybersquatters,” Mr. de la Parra said. One of the rules they established was that applications involving geographic names required the approval of the local or regional governments. National domain names had already been assigned.Names like .nyc and .rio were approved. But in the case of .patagonia, for example, the sportswear maker Patagonia, Inc., withdrew its request for the domain after Argentina and Chile objected.But Amazon.com has persisted.The company declined to comment for this article. But in a 2017 letter to Icann, Brian Huseman, Amazon’s vice president of public policy, wrote: “Amazon has repeatedly offered to work with the concerned governments to find an amicable solution, offering to explore how we can best use .AMAZON for our business purposes while respecting the people, culture, history, and ecology of the Amazonia region.”Mr. Huseman wrote that the company had proposed creating domains that reflect the name of the region in the languages that are spoken there, like .amazonia or .amazonas.The countries challenging the retailer, however, said they wanted shared governance of the .amazon domain, to protect the name and to ensure they will have a say in how it is used in the future.“We would like to be able to raise objections to specific names,” said Mr. Zaluar.In its latest counterproposal, Brazil put forward the idea of a committee with representatives from all eight governments and Amazon.com that would approve extensions of the domain.Mr. Zaluar said Brazil would not oppose names like book.amazon or furniture.amazon. “But what if tomorrow, they decide to use hotel.amazon or trip.amazon?’’ he added. “Our tourism operators would be at a disadvantage.”The dispute has dragged on for seven years, with a number of proposals and counterproposals. Last year, Amazon.com offered $5 million worth of Kindle e-readers and various hosting services as part of a proposed compromise.“We are not looking for financial compensation,” Francisco Carrión Mena, Ecuador’s ambassador to the United States, wrote in a letter to Icann, the internet body that governs web addresses, explaining that the group of eight countries had rejected Amazon’s most recent proposal because it did not provide shared governance of the domain name.In an additional complication, the eight countries are no longer participating as a single entity.Just as negotiations over control of .amazon appeared to be entering the final stretch, a political crisis erupted in January in Venezuela, with Juan Guaidó declaring himself the country’s rightful leader in defiance of President Nicolás Maduro. About 50 countries now recognize Mr. Guaidó, while others continue to recognize Mr. Maduro.“There’s no difference in views — they both want to defend the name of the Amazon, but it’s made it impossible to coordinate a joint counterproposal,” Mr. Zaluar said. As a result, each country has been responsible for submitting its own initiative.Amazon and the eight countries missed an April 7 deadline to reach a compromise solution. Now, Amazon has until Sunday to produce a new proposal that takes into consideration the countries’ concerns.The final decision rests with the internet body that oversees domain names.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBitsBy David StreitfeldEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi, I’m David Streitfeld, reporting from a very quiet week in Silicon Valley. The venture capitalists were at their vacation homes or exotic resorts, dreaming of riches to come. Entrepreneurs also must have taken time off, because I made it to San Jose in less than two hours, a personal record. There wasn’t even a new data privacy scandal to occupy the pundits.Amazon, however, never lets up. Chances are, something under your family Christmas tree or at your Hanukkah or Kwanzaa celebration was from the retailer. Perhaps everything was. Amazon’s 210th and final press release of the year summarized the company’s holiday season: best ever. If history is any guide, more than half those sales were made by third parties — shops big and small that are in essence renting a stall in the Amazon bazaar.With millions of marketplace sellers battling for a piece of the lucrative Amazon action, competition is fierce. Exactly how tough I didn’t realize until I read a piece called “Prime and Punishment: Dirty Dealing in the $175 Billion Amazon Marketplace,” by Josh Dzieza on the tech site the Verge. Almost as an aside, the article mentions that some unscrupulous sellers were taking an established competitor’s product, setting it on fire and then posting photos saying it exploded. Amazon would go nuts and pull the product as a safety hazard, leaving a clear field for the shady new arrival.Another common move, the article says, is to get a competitor’s product reclassified as a sex toy, suppressing it from ordinary search results. This happened to a seller of childproof locks and outlet covers, whose sales dwindled to zero because absolutely no one was searching for “sexual childproof door lock.”At Amazon, the customer reigns supreme, which means sellers who are accused of doing something wrong need to confess to something, anything, even if they are the victim of another seller’s sabotage. It’s so difficult to mount a successful appeal that many merchants hire professional advisers to get them out of Amazon jail.(I asked Amazon how often sellers took the arson route. In a statement, the retailer replied, “There are bad actors who attempt to undermine our store, but they do not reflect the flourishing community of honest entrepreneurs that make up the vast majority of our seller community.”)Amazon also turns up in a new story in Wired, which asks: Whatever happened to the Future Book? That is the writer Craig Mod’s term for the immersive, interactive, highly connected thrill ride that would finally kill off the traditional boring physical book by, oh, 2015.It didn’t happen. “My Kindle Oasis — one of the most svelte, elegant and expensive digital book containers you can buy in 2018 — is about as interactive as a potato,” Mr. Mod writes. One possible reason: Amazon had little competition for the Kindle, so innovation in e-readers ground to a halt.Both the Wired and the Verge stories might seem to be about how Amazon is overextended, can’t be all things to all people and needs to do what it already does better rather than keep expanding into new fields. But they’re really about how Amazon wins even when it loses.Mr. Mod’s point is that while Kindles never killed physical books, there has nevertheless been an explosion of activity around the book. For instance, it is much simpler and much cheaper to publish yourself than it was 20 years ago. There has also been an explosion in recorded books that will only grow as smart speakers in the home become ubiquitous.And who owns the leading home speaker company, the leading recorded books company and the biggest — by far — physical and digital bookstore? You guessed it.As for the Amazon Marketplace sellers who are undermined by bad guys, Amazon has an answer: protection, for a price.“When sellers get in trouble for customer complaints or attacks from counterfeiters,” Mr. Dzieza writes, “the solution is often to more fully meld with Amazon — to enroll in its fulfillment program, to purchase Amazon’s labels to make sure product isn’t being diverted or even make their brand exclusive to Amazon, which brings special protections.”A wrinkle about the third-party sellers that the Verge doesn’t tackle is the way Amazon makes them sign what is called a most-favored-nation or M.F.N. clause, which stipulates they cannot sell on another site cheaper than they sell on Amazon. British and German regulators investigated the retailer’s use of these clauses a few years ago, with the result that Amazon dropped the practice in Europe. But they’re still in use in the United States.In May, two law professors detailed the case against the M.F.N. restrictions as harmful to consumers in a Yale Law Journal article, “Antitrust Enforcement Against Platform MFNs.” A few days before Christmas, Senator Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut picked up on the issue and wrote a four-page letter to the Federal Trade Commission and the Justice Department saying he was “deeply concerned” that Amazon’s M.F.N. contracts could stifle market competition and artificially inflate prices.For instance, Mr. Blumenthal wrote, a competitor to Amazon might try to gain an edge by charging merchants a smaller commission. If those merchants also sell on Amazon, however, they could not pass along those savings to their customers, because of the M.F.N. clause. That would be bad for consumers while reinforcing Amazon’s dominance. Amazon declined to comment.■ It used to be that only a few cranks criticized Amazon, but that is rapidly shifting. Still, I was surprised at the take-no-prisoners tone of David Heinemeier Hansson, the programmer who writes and tweets as DHH, in an open letter to Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder, on Medium.“I think you’re currently making bad decisions that you’re going to regret. Maybe even decisions that we as a whole society will come to regret,” DHH wrote. He added that Mr. Bezos still had time to shape his legacy “into something more than the man who killed retail, extracted the greatest loot from its HQ cities, and who expanded the most monopoly holdings the fastest.”DHH wrote his piece in November, but Medium surfaced it in its daily digest just last week. What makes his criticism especially noteworthy is that Mr. Bezos is a shareholder in DHH’s software development company, Basecamp. DHH notes that he and his co-founder have not talked to Mr. Bezos for at least seven years but that “if we get another chance, this would be the most pressing topic.”■ One last new Amazon development, which might be the biggest of all: unionization. Workers at Amazon’s biggest warehouse in Spain began a two-day strike on Thursday. Warehouse employees on Staten Island are calling for unionization, following the lead of colleagues in Minnesota. Here is a good wrap-up from the Guardian. Amazon has successfully stymied unionization efforts since the company began, so this shift is momentous.■ In non-Amazon news, it appears that the answer to the eternal question of whether the world can have too many iPhones is: Quite likely.■ Thanks to Apple’s news, the stock market as I write is again plunging. But there’s a silver lining for tech companies: They are big, and getting bigger, and a recession might only help them against the competition.David Streitfeld has covered technology and its effects for 20 years. In 2013, he was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Reporting. You can follow him on Twitter here: @DavidStreitfeld.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — The National Enquirer is being sold to the former head of the airport newsstand company Hudson News following a rocky year in which the tabloid was accused of burying stories that could have hurt Donald Trump's 2016 presidential campaign.Tabloid owner American Media said Thursday it plans to sell the supermarket weekly to James Cohen. Financial terms were not immediately disclosed for the deal, which included two other American Media tabloids, the Globe and the National Examiner.American Media said last week that it wanted to get out of the tabloid business to focus on its other operations that include its teen brand and broadcast platforms.Federal prosecutors in Manhattan agreed last year not to prosecute American Media in exchange for the company's cooperation in a campaign finance investigation. That probe eventually led to a three-year prison term for Trump's former personal lawyer Michael Cohen for campaign violations among other charges.American Media admitted it had paid $150,000 to keep former Playboy model Karen McDougal quiet about an alleged affair with Trump to help his campaign. Trump has denied an affair.The sale would end a longtime relationship between the National Enquirer and Trump. Under the aegis of American Media CEO David Pecker, the tabloid has for years buried potentially embarrassing stories about Trump and other favored celebrities by buying the rights to them and never publishing in a practice called ""catch-and-kill.""The Associated Press reported last year that Pecker kept a safe in the Enquirer's office that held documents on buried stories, including those involving Trump.Whether James Cohen has any allegiances to Trump is not clear. While he was a registered Republican as late as 2017, according to Nexis records, he has given to both Republicans and Democrats. That included $17,300 in 2016 to an arm of the Democratic National Committee and $2,500 to the Republican National Committee in 2012.News of the sale comes two months after Amazon chief Jeff Bezos publicly accused the National Enquirer of trying to blackmail him by threatening to publish explicit photos of him.An American Media attorney denied the charge, but it threatened potentially big legal costs by upending American Media's non-prosecution agreement in the hush money case. The AP reported that federal prosecutors were looking into whether the publisher violated terms of the deal, which included a promise not to break any laws in the future.The Bezos accusation comes at a difficult time for American Media. It has financed several recent acquisitions with borrowed money and has been struggling under a heavy debt load. American Media said the Cohen deal would help reduce the amount it needs to pay back, leaving it with $355 million in debt.The Washington Post, which earlier reported the sale, said Cohen will pay $100 million in the deal.Cohen's family had run a magazine and newspaper distributor for decades before his father branched into newsstand stores in 1980s, starting with a single one at LaGuardia Airport. Before he died in 2012, the father had opened more than 600 stores.After the death, James Cohen's niece alleged her uncle had cheated her out of her inheritance. She lost the case.The family sold a majority stake in the chain about a decade ago. The business is now owned by Dufry, an operator of duty-free stores in which James Cohen is a major shareholder.Cohen still owns a magazine and newspaper distributor called Hudson News Distributors. In addition, he runs a real estate developer and a publishing company, which owns Gallerie, an art and design magazine.Cohen has reportedly been involved in American Media deals before. The New York Times reports that, in 2011, Cohen invested in the company's American edition of OK!, a British tabloid.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.When President Trump fired James Comey in 2017, the F.B.I. was spooked enough that it opened an investigation to determine if the president was working on behalf of the Russian government, The New York Times reported on Friday. Late-night hosts have been wondering aloud about the same question for years.Stephen Colbert, for one, said on Monday that he doesn’t know what all the fuss was about this weekend. He introduced a new mock game show evaluating the president, called “Evil or Stupid?”“The New York Times revealed that after Donald Trump fired James Comey in 2017, the F.B.I. opened an inquiry into whether Trump was secretly working on behalf of Russia. I think that’s ridiculous: There’s nothing secret about it.” — STEPHEN COLBERT“This morning, Trump flat-out told reporters, quote, ‘I never worked for Russia.’ You know what that means: He’s doing it for free. It’s possible he’s a traitor and a bad negotiator.” — JAMES CORDEN“President Trump told reporters today that he has never worked for Russia. ’Cause you know what they say: It ain’t work if you love what you do!” — SETH MEYERSJimmy Fallon joked that Trump might not have the professional skills to work for Vladimir Putin anyway.“It came out that back in 2017, the F.B.I. started investigating whether Trump was secretly working for Russia. When asked if Trump ever worked for him, Vladimir Putin said, [impersonating Putin] ‘No, he’s more like unpaid intern.’” — JIMMY FALLONAs the historically long government shutdown stretches on, late-night hosts continue to keep up a drumbeat of criticism. James Corden on Monday criticized Trump, saying his conduct during the shutdown wasn’t out of character“Eight hundred thousand Americans are now working without getting paid. So, as promised, Trump really is running the country like one of his businesses.” — JAMES CORDEN“Over the weekend, I saw that Washington, D.C., was hit with a big storm and got a foot of snow. The storm showed up and was like, ‘Wait, how is everything already shut down? That’s my job.’” — JIMMY FALLON“According to new research, 60 percent of Americans say they plan to get in shape in 2019. And according to newer research, it’s now just 10 percent.” — SETH MEYERS“I don’t know if you guys know this, but it’s only 659 days until the 2020 election. That’s like tomorrow, guys.” — TREVOR NOAHJimmy Kimmel is doing his part to keep federal employees working during the government shutdown.Colbert has a romantic message for MacKenzie Bezos, soon-to-be ex-wife of Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos.On Tuesday’s “Late Show,” Senator Kirsten Gillibrand is expected to announce her first official steps toward a presidential run, according to CBS News. The Times Late-Night Comedy Committee will be here to tell you about it.Conan O’Brien will be back after a monthslong hiatus next week, with a shorter, thoroughly revamped show. Here’s what he said about what’s in store.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowThe 100 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew Yorkers who expected better bought into the myth that tech companies are more than just self-interested businesses. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. The announcement on Thursday that Amazon has canceled its plan to build a headquarters in New York City is no victory. It’s no defeat, either.What it is, to use a Big Apple term, is meh, yet another indication that the dulcet attractions of tech have lost their charm for many and that the business — which has been this country’s most innovative and promising and often its most inspirational — is just that: a business, like any other, out for itself and itself alone, and most definitely not changing the world for the better.That was the cry of tech from its start — especially of the internet types like the Amazon head, Jeff Bezos. Bankers never said they were going to make the world a better place. Nor did makers of toilet paper or potato chips. Maybe soda makers like Coca-Cola said it in their ads, but we were all in on the joke when they told us that sugar water would bring the world together.But Silicon Valley truly believed its own myths — that tech leaders had arrived from the mountaintop to deliver the gleaming devices and magical software that would transform humanity, and that they would never be evil.Most of all, they really believed they were more than whatever they actually were doing, whether slinging better ads by sucking up our data, or taking a vig for getting us a date or a car, or in Amazon’s case, selling us piles and piles of stuff in really cheap and convenient ways.That’s why only a few years ago, it would have been easy for Amazon to saunter into a place like Long Island City, Queens. In fact, the online giant’s effort to decide where its “second headquarters” would be was originally greeted with enthusiasm, with multiple municipalities going to comical lengths to bring in the promised 25,000 high-paying jobs.There is, of course, no such thing as a second headquarters — this was a marketing circus from the start. But everyone bought into the narrative, especially the media, painting it as if it was going to be a much more transformative opportunity than it ever could be. “Saturday Night Live” got at the heart of it with a sketch a year ago, in which the reps from various cities bowed and scraped, offering all manner of delicious foods and financial gimmes to the world’s richest man.It was satire, but really, was it?It cut too close to home for many, who wondered why, in an era when all kinds of public services are being cut and the city’s infrastructure is crumbling, a trillion-dollar corporation was getting so much. When it was revealed exactly how much — $3 billion in tax breaks after largely secret negotiations between civil potentates like Gov. Andrew Cuomo and faceless Amazon execs — the situation was ripe for disruption. (Was it curious that Mr. Bezos was never the ringmaster in these negotiations? Not to me. He often stays behind the scenes in these situations.)Tech people are always bragging about how they “move fast and break things,” as Facebook’s now-unfortunate motto put it, while seeking out new markets. This time, the disruption came from newly emboldened activists, with high-profile figures like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (whose district is adjacent to the Queens area where the complex was planned) weighing in with some choice words about the deal.“Can everyday people come together and effectively organize against creeping overreach of one of the world’s biggest corporations?,” she tweeted this month, part of a relentless series of these kinds of challenges.Amazon, which never seemed to think it needed to do anything but assert that future tax revenues and other theoretical economic benefits would allow the deal to pay for itself, wasn’t prepared for this kind of scrutiny. So it decided to pull out before it got any hotter. With the prospect of drawn-out negotiations — the cost of not bringing everyone onboard at the start — and the glare of attention such a back-and-forth would bring, the always calculating company came to the obvious calculation that it was not worth the trouble. In other words: “Thank u, next.”It was a little funny that Mayor Bill de Blasio, who was a big proponent of the deal until he wasn’t on Thursday, tried to slap back at Amazon for not being able to stand the heat of New York’s kitchen. Twitter having become the means of governing now, he tweeted: “You have to be tough to make it in New York City.”Oh stop. Amazon is plenty tough, but it just decided to fold up its circus tent and move on. It turns out it won’t even take that show anywhere else and instead says it will simply double down on its other second headquarters in the Washington area, which pretty much tells you that this was all a charade from the beginning.Many New Yorkers had cheered on the opposition, assuming that it might persuade Amazon to strike a better deal with the city. They mostly agreed that more tech jobs would be good for New York (good salaries and more money for retailers, restaurants and the real estate industry) more than bad (gentrification, congestion).But no one wanted to end up like San Francisco — which has become a modern hellscape even as internet companies build their airy HQs and become ever richer. There, tax giveaways only exacerbated income inequality and offered no solutions.Amazon certainly could have been more creative in proposing some balms for those ills in New York. For example, could it have entered into a cool public-private partnership to fix the junky subways its employees would have ridden, perhaps in new and innovative ways?You know, making the world a better place? No, I guess not.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Virgin Galactic’s first test passenger received her commercial astronaut wings from the U.S. aviation regulator on Tuesday after flying on the company’s rocket plane to evaluate the customer experience in February.Virgin Galactic’s chief astronaut instructor, Beth Moses, who is a former NASA engineer, became the first woman to fly to space on a commercial vehicle when she joined pilots David Mackay and Mike Masucci on SpaceShipTwo VSS Unity.The wings were presented to the three-person crew at the 35th Space Symposium in Colorado by the Federal Aviation Administration's associate administrator for commercial space, Wayne Monteith. “Commercial human space flight is now a reality,” he said.The February test flight nudged Richard Branson’s space travel company closer to delivering suborbital flights for the more than 600 people who have paid Virgin Galactic about $80 million (£61 million) in deposits. Branson has said he hopes to be the first passenger on a commercial flight in 2019.The 90-minute flight, during which passengers will be able to experience a few minutes of weightlessness and see the Earth’s curvature, costs $250,000 – a price that the company said will increase before it falls.Jeff Bezos’ Blue Origin and Elon Musk’s SpaceX are also in the space tourism race. Blue Origin has launched its New Shepard rocket to space, but its trips have not yet carried humans. SpaceX last year named Japanese billionaire Yusaku Maezawa as its first passenger on a voyage around the moon, tentatively scheduled for 2023. Moses, who as a NASA engineer worked on the assembly of the International Space Station, is designing a three-day training program for Virgin Galactic’s future space tourists.“I gleaned a lot of firsthand information that we can roll into the design and then also into the training,” she said on her return to earth in Mojave, California, in February.The passengers, some of whom have been signed up since 2004, will train in a mock-up cabin at New Mexico’s Spaceport America before their flights.Moses told Reuters she aims for customers to arrive in space “not wondering what noise they just heard or being surprised by the G they just felt.”Virgin Galactic’s Branson will also receive the annual Space Achievement Award at the symposium in recognition of the company’s two crewed test flights, the first from U.S. soil since the final Space Shuttle mission in 2011. (Reporting by Elizabeth Culliford; Editing by Leslie Adler)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - Virgin Galactic’s first test passenger received her commercial astronaut wings from the U.S. aviation regulator on Tuesday after flying on the company’s rocket plane to evaluate the customer experience in February.Virgin Galactic’s chief astronaut instructor, Beth Moses, who is a former NASA engineer, became the first woman to fly to space on a commercial vehicle when she joined pilots David Mackay and Mike Masucci on SpaceShipTwo VSS Unity.The wings were presented to the three-person crew at the 35th Space Symposium in Colorado by the Federal Aviation Administration's associate administrator for commercial space, Wayne Monteith. “Commercial human space flight is now a reality,” he said.The February test flight nudged Richard Branson’s space travel company closer to delivering suborbital flights for the more than 600 people who have paid Virgin Galactic about $80 million in deposits. Branson has said he hopes to be the first passenger on a commercial flight in 2019.The 90-minute flight, during which passengers will be able to experience a few minutes of weightlessness and see the Earth’s curvature, costs $250,000 – a price that the company said will increase before it falls.Jeff Bezos’ Blue Origin and Elon Musk’s SpaceX are also in the space tourism race. Blue Origin has launched its New Shepard rocket to space, but its trips have not yet carried humans. SpaceX last year named Japanese billionaire Yusaku Maezawa as its first passenger on a voyage around the moon, tentatively scheduled for 2023. Moses, who as a NASA engineer worked on the assembly of the International Space Station, is designing a three-day training program for Virgin Galactic’s future space tourists.“I gleaned a lot of firsthand information that we can roll into the design and then also into the training,” she said on her return to earth in Mojave, California, in February.The passengers, some of whom have been signed up since 2004, will train in a mock-up cabin at New Mexico’s Spaceport America before their flights.Moses told Reuters she aims for customers to arrive in space “not wondering what noise they just heard or being surprised by the G they just felt.”Virgin Galactic’s Branson will also receive the annual Space Achievement Award at the symposium in recognition of the company’s two crewed test flights, the first from U.S. soil since the final Space Shuttle mission in 2011. (Reporting by Elizabeth Culliford; Editing by Leslie Adler)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAmazon might have been the center of a new tech ecosystem in Queens. Here’s what the city can do next. By Enrico MorettiProfessor Moretti teaches economics at the University of California, Berkeley.Amazon’s decision on Feb. 14 to cancel its plans in New York City was actually the second time that New York missed its chance to host Amazon headquarters. The first time was in 1994, and what happened then informs what might happen next.It was the beginning of the internet era, and a 30-year-old Jeff Bezos was living in Manhattan, working for the hedge fund D.E. Shaw on Wall Street. He had big plans for his new company, an online book retailer, but he wasn’t sure where to locate it. One thing was clear: New York City’s high-tech ecosystem — the engineers and programmers, the venture capitalists, the intellectual property lawyers, the vendors and service providers that specialized in this specific part of the industry — was too small and undeveloped for an internet start-up to thrive.At that time, people who knew how to create commercial websites were still rare, and he found them in Seattle. Some of the best software engineers and programmers were concentrated there, along with venture capitalists who understood early the potential of the internet. The benefits for Seattle were even greater. Amazon now has more than 45,000 employees there.But the impact of Amazon on the regional economy stretches far beyond the direct employment effect. Its presence helped create a new internet cluster in the region, which served as a magnet for innovative companies such as Tableau and Remitly, and other Silicon Valley giants such as Google, Apple, Facebook and Oracle, which have all opened large offices in Seattle.A growing body of economic research suggests that a company’s success depends on the entire ecosystem that surrounds it, not just the quality of its workers. Having good neighbors, even competitors, improves the productivity and creativity of companies and their workers. Innovative firms have an incentive to locate near other innovative firms. It is a tipping-point dynamic: Once a city attracts some innovative workers and companies, its ecosystem changes in ways that make it even more attractive.Economists have a term for this: “agglomeration effects.” In my research, which examines the work of one million inventors over the past 40 years, I have found that engineers and scientists are more creative in cities where they are surrounded by other engineers and scientists in the same field. This is not just because places like Seattle and Silicon Valley attract the best and brightest, but also because engineers relocating from a minor to a major cluster of technology companies become significantly more productive, as measured by the number of patents created in a year. The quality of innovation also improves, as measured by the number of subsequent research citations received.There is something almost magical in the process of generating new ideas. Being around smart people tends to make us smarter, more creative and more productive. While many people think that email, smartphones and the internet have made proximity less important to the creative process, in reality the opposite is true. Location is more important than ever, in part because knowledge spillovers are more important than ever.This has enormous implications for the economic map of America. Expenditures on research and development and patenting activity are more geographically concentrated today than they were 30 years ago. This trend magnifies the differences between winners and losers among American communities.Which brings us back to New York’s loss. Its regional economy, once dependent on finance, is finally beginning to diversify. But New York’s high-tech cluster is still small relative to its West Coast peers. In the past three years, tech jobs in San Francisco and San Jose have grown 13 percent and 12 percent, respectively — twice the rate for New York, which grew by only 6 percent.The long-run cost of Amazon’s retreat will include not just thousands of good jobs but more critically, the forgone agglomeration benefits — the innovative employers that will not locate in New York.This is a big loss. The tech sector has proved to be the most dynamic engine of earnings growth for American cities, significantly better than the financial sector. Over the past five years, average earnings in high tech in the 10 largest innovation clusters have grown by 18 percent, twice as fast as average earnings in financial services. It’s not that the high-tech sector will disappear from New York, of course, but in the coming years and decades its growth will undoubtedly suffer.Since existing economic studies of agglomeration effects in American cities are typically based on many companies, not just Amazon, and many cities, not just New York, it is difficult to offer predictions of the exact magnitude of the effect. But based on a majority of the existing economic literature, it appears safe to say that the impact on the New York labor market will be noticeable.What should New York do next? Because the region already has a large base of potential high-tech employees and an ability to attract more, subsidies are not necessarily the best strategy. It may be more effective in the long run to provide spaces for research and development, such as the Cornell Tech campus on Roosevelt Island, which was designed to attract graduate students with a strong interest in working for tech companies or starting their own. Fostering their creativity — and avoiding the bitter political infighting that scares away potential newcomers to the city — should be a top priority.Enrico Moretti, a professor of economics at the University of California, Berkeley, is the author of “The New Geography of Jobs.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this article incorrectly described the D.E. Shaw firm in the 1990s. It was a hedge fund, not an investment bank.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byIt could have answered the concerns of citizens. Instead it bolted. By Bill de BlasioMr. de Blasio is mayor of New York City.The first word I had that Amazon was about to scrap an agreement to bring 25,000 new jobs to New York City came an hour before it broke in the news on Thursday.The call was brief and there was little explanation for the company’s reversal.Just days before, I had counseled a senior Amazon executive about how they could win over some of their critics. Meet with organized labor. Start hiring public housing residents. Invest in infrastructure and other community needs. Show you care about fairness and creating opportunity for the working people of Long Island City.There was a clear path forward. Put simply: If you don’t like a small but vocal group of New Yorkers questioning your company’s intentions or integrity, prove them wrong.Instead, Amazon proved them right. Just two hours after a meeting with residents and community leaders to move the project forward, the company abruptly canceled it all.I am a lifelong progressive who sees the problem of growing income and wealth inequality. The agreement we struck with Amazon back in November was a solid foundation. It would have created: at least 25,000 new jobs, including for unionized construction and service workers; partnerships with public colleges; and $27 billion in new tax revenue to fuel priorities from transit to affordable housing — a ninefold return on the taxes the city and state were prepared to forgo to win the headquarters.The retail giant’s expansion in New York encountered opposition in no small part because of growing frustration with corporate America. For decades, wealth and power have concentrated at the very top. There’s no greater example of this than Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos — the richest man in the world.The lesson here is that corporations can’t ignore rising anger over economic inequality anymore. We see that anger roiling Silicon Valley, in the rocks hurled at buses carrying tech workers from San Francisco and Oakland to office parks in the suburbs. We see it in the protests that erupted at Davos last month over the growing monopoly of corporate power.Amazon’s capricious decision to take its ball and go home, in the face of protest, won’t diminish that anger. The city and state were holding up our end. And more important, a sizable majority of New Yorkers were on board. Support for the new headquarters was strongest in communities of color and among working people who too often haven’t gotten the economic opportunity they deserved. A project that could’ve opened a path to the middle class for thousands of families was scuttled by a few very powerful people sitting in a boardroom in Seattle.In the end, Amazon seemed unwilling to bend or even to talk in earnest with the community about ways to shape their project. They didn’t want to be in a city where they had to engage critics at all. And it’s a pattern. When Seattle’s City Council passed a tax on big employers to fund the battle against homelessness, the company threatened to stop major expansion plans, putting 7,000 jobs at risk. The tax was rescinded.Economic power — the kind that allows you to dangle 50,000 jobs and billions in revenue over every metropolitan area in the country — is being steadily concentrated into fewer and fewer hands.For a generation, working people have gotten more and more productive, have worked longer and longer hours, and haven’t gotten their fair share in return. C.E.O.s are reaping the benefits of that work, while the people actually responsible for it are keeping less and less.This is no accident. The same day Amazon announced its decision to halt its second headquarters here, it was reported that the company would pay no federal income tax on the billions in profits it made last year. That’s galling, especially at a time when millions of working-class and middle-class Americans are finding that they are getting smaller tax returns this year thanks to President Trump’s tax plan, which has hugely benefited the wealthy.As the mayor of the nation’s largest city, a place that’s both a progressive beacon and the very symbol of capitalism, I share the frustration about corporate America. So do many of my fellow mayors across the country. We know the game is rigged. But we still find ourselves fighting one another in the race to secure opportunity for our residents as corporations force us into all-against-all competitions. Amazon’s HQ2 bidding war exemplified that injustice. It’s time to end that economic warfare with a national solution that prevents corporations from pitting cities against one another.Some companies get it. Salesforce founder and chief executive Marc Benioff threw his weight behind a new corporate tax in San Francisco to fund services for the homeless. In January, Microsoft pledged $500 million to combat the affordable housing crisis in Seattle.Amazon’s path in New York would have been far smoother had it recognized our residents’ fears of economic insecurity and displacement — and spoken to them directly.We just witnessed another example of what the concentration of power in the hands of huge corporations leaves in its wake. Let’s change the rules before the next corporation tries to divide and conquer.Bill de Blasio is mayor of New York City.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.) Capitalism helped Ray Dalio build his investment empire. But in a lengthy LinkedIn post, the Bridgewater Associates founder says that it isn’t working anymore.• Mr. Dalio writes that he has seen capitalism “evolve in a way that it is not working well for the majority of Americans because it’s producing self-reinforcing spirals up for the haves and down for the have-nots.”• “Disparity in wealth, especially when accompanied by disparity in values, leads to increasing conflict and, in the government, that manifests itself in the form of populism of the left and populism of the right and often in revolutions of one sort or another.”• “The problem is that capitalists typically don’t know how to divide the pie well and socialists typically don’t know how to grow it well.”• “We are now seeing conflicts between populists of the left and populists of the right increasing around the world in much the same way as they did in the 1930s when the income and wealth gaps were comparably large.”• “It doesn’t take a genius to know that when a system is producing outcomes that are so inconsistent with its goals, it needs to be reformed.”Stay tuned: Mr. Dalio says that he’ll offer his solutions in another essay.A federal judge gave Elon Musk and the S.E.C. two weeks to resolve a dispute about whether Mr. Musk violated a settlement he reached with the commission, Matthew Goldstein of the NYT reports.Mr. Musk’s tweeting is at the heart of the skirmish. The S.E.C. says that a tweet about Tesla production numbers violated the settlement, in which he promised to get approval from a Tesla lawyer before publishing any Twitter posts that include potentially market-sensitive information.His lawyers insist that the tweet didn’t contain material information. One of them said yesterday that the S.E.C.’s policy on what needs to be vetted was “murky.” Judge Alison Nathan of Federal District Court in Manhattan wondered if there was a “lack of clarity” and whether the settlement should be modified or struck down.“Take a deep breath,” Judge Nathan told both sides. She added that they should put on “their reasonableness pants” to find common ground.This is “something of a victory for Mr. Musk, who could have been fined if he was found to be in contempt,” Mr. Goldstein writes. But Judge Nathan told Mr. Musk that, regardless of how powerful a person he is, a “court order is not optional.”More: Tesla shares fell after it reported delivering fewer vehicles than expected in the first quarter. And the automaker’s electric vehicle competition appears to be catching up.Jeff and MacKenzie Bezos said yesterday that they had finalized their divorce — and she will keep a big chunk of the Amazon empire.Mr. Bezos will keep 75 percent of the couple’s Amazon stock — which means he will hold about 12 percent of the company’s shares — as well as their family’s ownership interests in the WaPo and the Blue Origin space exploration company. That’s enough to keep his title as the world’s richest man.More important for him, he’ll keep voting control of Ms. Bezos’s shares. Even if she sells them, the recipient has to agree to hand over voting rights to Mr. Bezos.Ms. Bezos could have been entitled to half of the couple’s holdings under Washington State law, according to legal experts. It’s not clear what other compensation she is receiving from the split.But her holdings are valued at about $36 billion, making her one of the wealthiest women in the world. In her first-ever tweet, Ms. Bezos wrote, “Excited about my own plans. Grateful for the past as I look forward to what comes next.”Initial findings from an investigation into the Ethiopian Airlines crash last month suggest that Boeing didn’t give pilots enough guidance on new anti-stall software in the 737 Max 8.The Ethiopian Airlines pilots followed Boeing’s instructions when the anti-stall system kicked in, the report suggests. They then shut down the software and tried to retake control — but failed to do so. Four minutes later, the plane crashed.The system appeared to have forced the plane’s nose down several times in less than three minutes. It “left the pilot with no ability to gain control of the aircraft if it went to the full limit,” Dennis Tajer, a spokesman for American Airlines’s pilots union, told the NYT. “It’s our responsibility to eliminate this risk,” Dennis Muilenburg, Boeing’s C.E.O., said yesterday. “We own it, and we know how to do it.” Boeing has found a second software flaw in the 737 Max 8, separate from the anti-stall feature. The FT reports that this was the reason for a delay in rolling out software fixes for the plane.President Trump reportedly hoped to announce a final trade agreement between the U.S. and China yesterday. But he stopped short of that, Anna Swanson of the NYT reports, instead saying that it may take at least four more weeks to secure an “epic” trade deal.• “The United States and China continue to haggle over some remaining issues, including how many of the American tariffs on Chinese goods will be removed, and when.”• “In remarks at the White House, Mr. Trump said that the deal was ‘very complete’ and that the two sides had ‘agreed to far more than we have left to agree to.’ ”• “I think I can say some of the toughest things have been agreed to,” Mr. Trump added.Yet no matter what, Mr. Trump can already claim a trade victory. “Spurred by tariffs and trade tensions, global companies are beginning to shift their supply chains away from China, just as some Trump administration officials had wanted,” Keith Bradsher of the NYT writes.Herman Cain, the former C.E.O. of the Godfather’s Pizza chain and a presidential hopeful in 2012, may soon become President Trump’s next pick as a Fed governor.Mr. Cain is perhaps best remembered for his 2012 run for president, when he proposed an unorthodox “9-9-9” economic plan: a flat 9 percent tax rate, 9 percent business tax and 9 percent national sales tax.But Mr. Trump wants him on the Fed, calling him “a truly outstanding individual.” His nomination is dependent on the White House vetting process.Mr. Trump’s pick comes as the president has soured on the Fed. The president has told associates that selecting Jay Powell as the Fed’s chairman was a mistake, because of his insistence on raising interest rates.But the president’s Fed choices are drawing brickbats. Like Stephen Moore, the economics commentator whom Mr. Trump has already nominated for a place on the Fed board, Mr. Cain doesn’t have what critics say are the requisite qualifications.Critics worry that Mr. Trump is politicizing the Fed, which is meant to be apolitical. The possible nominations of Mr. Moore and Mr. Cain have “the potential to undermine the credibility of monetary policy,” Sarah Bloom Raskin, a Fed governor under President Barack Obama, told the NYT.JPMorgan Chase released its annual report to investors yesterday, and it included a long letter from Jamie Dimon about the bank’s role in shaping America.The biggest problems facing the U.S., according to Mr. Dimon, include education, immigration, health care costs, cyberattacks and “excessive regulation.”Capitalism is under pressure, but it’s better than socialism, he argues. “Socialism inevitably produces stagnation, corruption and often worse,” Mr. Dimon writes. But the JPMorgan chief also distinguishes social democrats, which some Democrats identify as, from true socialists.C.E.O.s and companies should be more active in public life, Mr. Dimon writes, “particularly when they or their companies can uniquely help design policies that are good for America.”To respond, JPMorgan plans to strengthen its public policy teams “to take our advocacy and ideas to the next level,” he writes.More: Jamie Dimon reportedly spent much of last year considering a run for president — but decided there was no way a Wall Street C.E.O. could win.Rudy Giuliani, who was President Trump’s personal lawyer during the special counsel’s investigation into Russian interference in the U.S. election, is a very busy man, according to Stephanie Baker of Bloomberg Businessweek.• Mr. Giuliani runs “a globe-trotting consulting business,” Ms. Baker writes. “In the past two years he’s given speeches and done consulting and legal work in Armenia, Bahrain, Brazil, Colombia, Turkey, and Uruguay, among other countries,” as well as significant work in Ukraine.• But “the question of conflict arises, in part, because Giuliani keeps popping up in world capitals to make pronouncements that dovetail with Trump’s foreign policy positions.”• Mr. Giuliani says he tells clients that he doesn’t lobby the U.S. government. “ ‘There’s no conflict. What’s the conflict?’ he said. ‘I don’t ask the president for anything for them ever.’ He later added, ‘I don’t peddle influence. I don’t have to. I make a good deal of money as a lawyer and as a security consultant.’ ”• “Whatever he does next, whether it’s continuing as Trump’s personal lawyer or going back to full-time consulting, Giuliani is confident the business will continue to flow. ‘I got clients before I represented President Trump, and I’m gonna get clients afterwards,’ he said. ‘After I stop representing him, I’ll be doing more work overseas, because I’ll have more time.’ ”The World Bank’s board is reportedly expected to approve David Malpass as its president today.Lars Idermark resigned as Swedbank’s chairman amid an investigation into alleged money laundering at the Swedish lender.President Trump plans to nominate Jovita Carranza, the U.S. treasurer, as his pick to lead the Small Business Administration, potentially replacing Linda McMahon.The Senate confirmed Mark Calabria, Vice President Mike Pence’s chief economist, as Mr. Trump’s pick to oversee Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.Deals• The company created to hold Yahoo’s $50 billion stake in the Alibaba Group plans to finally dissolve itself and distribute its holdings. (WSJ)• The European Central Bank reportedly will ask Deutsche Bank to raise fresh capital if it merges with Commerzbank. (Reuters)• Shares in Tradeweb, the bond-trading platform, jumped 27 percent on the company’s first day on the public markets. (Bloomberg)• Canyon Capital began a proxy fight at the student loan provider Navient yesterday and plans to seek four board seats. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• President Trump backed off his plan to close the border with Mexico, and instead threatened auto tariffs. (WSJ)• Mr. Trump signaled that he may block an effort to obtain six years’ worth of his tax returns. But even if lawmakers got the documents, they may not get the financial details they’re seeking. (WaPo, Bloomberg)• Speaker Nancy Pelosi said she’d rather build on the Affordable Care Act than adopt Medicare-for-all. (WaPo)• The Justice Department defended Attorney General William Barr’s handling of the Mueller report. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May has asked the E.U. to extend the Brexit deadline to June 30. The European Council’s president, Donald Tusk, had reportedly been preparing to offer a 12-month flexible delay. (BBC)• Ms. May’s attempts to reach cross-party agreement on her Brexit deal have made little progress. She is expected to offer a written proposal to Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, which will reportedly let lawmakers vote on whether to hold a referendum on any Brexit deal. (FT, Guardian)Tech• Britain is reportedly considering holding social media executives personally liable for harmful content on their platforms. (Guardian)• Google has scrapped its A.I. ethics board a little over a week after it was announced, after its choice of panel members drew criticism. (FT)• Microsoft is investigating sexual harassment claims that employees say were overlooked by its H.R. department. (Quartz)• Amazon is denting Google’s ad dominance. And Snap is about to try to take some of the same pie, too. (WSJ, Recode)Best of the rest• Leaders of Berkshire Hathaway’s many businesses are collaborating far more often now, suggesting a new way of doing business once Warren Buffett is no longer C.E.O. (WSJ)• A Tokyo court approved a 10-day detention of Carlos Ghosn, which his lawyer plans to appeal. Meanwhile, his wife spoke out about his latest arrest. (Reuters, NYT)• WikiLeaks says that Ecuador will evict Julian Assange from its London embassy within days. Ecuador denies the claim. (Bloomberg, Business Insider)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Reuters(Reuters) - The most powerful operational rocket in the world, SpaceX’s Falcon Heavy, launched its first commercial mission on Thursday from Florida in a key demonstration for billionaire entrepreneur Elon Musk's space company in the race to grasp lucrative military launch contracts.The 23-story-tall Heavy, which previously launched Musk’s cherry red Tesla roadster to space in a 2018 debut test flight, blasted off from Florida’s Kennedy Space Center carrying its first customer payload.""T plus 33 seconds into flight, under the power of 5.1 million pounds of thrust, Falcon Heavy is headed to space,"" SpaceX launch commentator John Insprucker said on a livestream. Roughly three minutes after clearing the pad, Heavy’s two side boosters separated from the core rocket for a synchronized landing at the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, sparking boisterous cheers from SpaceX engineers in the company's Hawthorne, California headquarters.  The middle booster, after pushing the payload into space, returned nearly 10 minutes later for a successful landing on SpaceX's seafaring drone ship 400 miles (645 km) off the Florida coast. In the 2018 test mission, Heavy's core booster missed the vessel and crashed into the Atlantic Ocean. “The Falcons have landed” Musk wrote on Twitter, inaugurating the first successful recovery of all three rocket boosters, which will be refurbished and re-fly in another Falcon Heavy mission this summer to carry a swarm of military and science satellites for the Air Force.Liftoff with Heavy’s new military-certified Falcon 9 engines was crucial in the race with Boeing-Lockheed venture United Launch Alliance and Jeff Bezos’ Blue Origin as Musk’s SpaceX, working to flight-prove its rocket fleet one mission at a time, aims to clinch a third of all U.S. National Security Space missions - coveted military contracts worth billions.The U.S. Air Force tapped SpaceX in 2018 to launch for $130 million a classified military satellite and in February added three more missions in a $297 million contract. SpaceX and Boeing Co are vying to send humans to space from U.S. soil for the first time in nearly a decade under NASA’s Commercial Crew Program. SpaceX’s Crew Dragon capsule, atop a Falcon 9 rocket, cleared its first unmanned test flight in March ahead of its crewed mission planned for July, while the first unmanned test for Boeing’s Starliner capsule is slated for August on ULA’s Atlas 5 rocket. Falcon Heavy carried a communications satellite for Saudi-based telecom firm Arabsat, which will beam internet and television services over Africa, Europe and the Middle East.Privately owned SpaceX, also known as Space Exploration Technologies Corp, was founded in 2002 by Musk, who is also a co-founder of electric car maker Tesla Inc. (Reporting by Joey Roulette; Editing by Lisa Shumaker)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Calloway-Blatch and Lance BoothHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. Virginia’s lieutenant governor, Justin E. Fairfax, above, has refused to resign in the face of sexual assault allegations, giving Democrats an excruciating choice: whether to impeach a black leader at a moment when the state’s two other top leaders, both white, are also resisting calls to quit after admitting to racist behavior.A second woman said on Friday that Mr. Fairfax had sexually assaulted her, echoing an accusation made earlier in the week. Both accusations came within a few days of Gov. Ralph Northam and Attorney General Mark R. Herring acknowledging that they wore blackface as young men. How Virginia Democrats handle these three state officials — who swept into office in 2017 on the first wave of backlash after President Trump’s election — will reverberate beyond the state’s borders.We examine how Virginia’s history of race and politics is now under intense scrutiny and give a day-by-day breakdown of the scandals.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. President Trump delivered a message of unity on Tuesday night during his second State of the Union address — but continued to push the hard-line immigration policies that have divided the capital and the nation. We checked the facts on some of Mr. Trump’s remarks.From Nancy Pelosi of California presiding as House speaker to the island of white created by the women on one side of the chamber, the Democrats’ resurgence was on full display at the State of the Union, our chief Washington correspondent writes.And with the looming Feb. 15 deadline to prevent another government shutdown, Mr. Trump is moving toward accepting a border security deal that would fall short of his demand for $5.7 billion in funds for a wall along the southwestern border.____3. Pope Francis acknowledged that priests and bishops in the Roman Catholic Church have sexually abused nuns, the first time he has publicly addressed the issue. Above, a nun outside Vatican City in August.A recent article in a Vatican magazine mentioned nuns having abortions or giving birth to the children of priests. “It’s true,” the pope replied when he was asked to comment on Tuesday. “There are priests and bishops who have done that.”Advocates for abused nuns were relieved that Francis had finally put the issue on the church’s radar. But they also noted that this problem has existed for years, and that the pope did not seem to suggest there would be a speedy solution.In India, the church has acknowledged a nun’s accusation that a bishop raped her 13 times, but only after five of her fellow nuns mutinied and publicly rallied to her side.____4. In a surprise vote, Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr., above, joined the Supreme Court’s liberal wing in a 5-to-4 decision blocking a Louisiana law that could have severely restricted abortion in the state.Chief Justice Roberts’s vote shows that while his general approach is to lean right, he is also a guardian of his court’s legitimacy and wants to make modest and deliberate moves, our Supreme Court reporter writes.The Louisiana case is not over, and the court is likely to hear a challenge to the law on its merits during the next term. Anti-abortion activists nationwide still believe they have their best chance in years to aggressively curb abortion access.____5. Matthew G. Whitaker, the acting attorney general, above, told the House Judiciary Committee on Friday that he had never used his position to provide inside information about the Russia investigation to President Trump or his proxies.During a somewhat contentious oversight hearing, he also said he had “not interfered in any way with the special counsel’s investigation.” But he refused to discuss his conversations with Mr. Trump or why he recently said the special counsel’s inquiry would soon wrap up.William P. Barr is expected to be confirmed by the Senate and sworn in as Mr. Whitaker’s replacement as soon as this week. And Mr. Trump announced Monday that he would nominate David Bernhardt to succeed Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke.____6. Liberal Democrats, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, above, introduced their “Green New Deal” on Thursday with a sweeping resolution that would combat climate change, create jobs and counter President Trump’s challenge to core party values.The resolution calls on the United States to eliminate additional emissions of carbon by 2030. While it is unlikely to get far, some ideas could advance as part of more modest legislation.NASA scientists said Wednesday that the Earth’s average surface temperature in 2018 was the fourth highest in nearly 140 years of record-keeping. “We’re no longer talking about a situation where global warming is something in the future,” said the director of the group that conducted the analysis. “It’s here. It’s now.”____7. Jeff Bezos, above, accused the company behind The National Enquirer of “extortion and blackmail,” writing that the company threatened to publish graphic photos of him if he did not publicly affirm that The Enquirer’s reporting on his extramarital affair was not politically motivated.“If in my position I can’t stand up to this kind of extortion, how many people can?” wrote Mr. Bezos, the founder of Amazon and the owner of The Washington Post. You can read excerpts from his blog post here.Federal prosecutors are now reviewing Mr. Bezos’ claim, according to two people briefed on the matter.____8. A deluge of toxic mud stretched for five miles, crushing homes, offices and people — more than 150 of them were killed when a mining dam collapsed in Brazil in January.The tragedy in the town of Brumadinho was hardly a surprise, experts told us. There are 88 mining dams in Brazil built like the one that failed: enormous reservoirs of mining waste held back by little more than walls of sand and silt.We took an expansive look at the disaster, reconstructing the mud’s deadly journey and illustrating how these dams are built and what led the one in Brumadinho to crumple.____9. The Grammy Awards, airing Sunday night on CBS, are supposed to be music’s biggest party. But as the show tries to stay culturally relevant while also balancing the demands of race and gender representation, it may be impossible to please everybody at once, our music reporter writes.Ariana Grande and Cardi B, who are up for a collective seven Grammys, recently released music videos in which they celebrated outrageous wealth and women’s bodies — and there’s hardly a man in sight. This week’s In Her Words, our gender newsletter, takes a glimpse at the history of female artists flexing their independence.Elsewhere in the entertainment world, “Saturday Night Live” mocked the media’s fascination with Jeff Bezos’ private photos and tore into the Virginia blackface controversy.____10. Finally, don’t miss our Best Weekend Reads.Mothers in Japan, like Yoshiko Nishimasa, above, are shouldering most of the work at home, including daily preschool paperwork, with little help from fathers; thousands of agricultural families descend on Denver for a 16-day celebration of Western heritage; and 63 years ago, a retired actor found a Greenwich Village apartment for $90 a month and never left.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these nine new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have a great week.Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestGovernment shutdown fallout is hitting airports hard — also, your grocery store. And European officials are scrambling for a Brexit backup plan.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi there! Have you too been sucked into the decluttering vortex of Marie Kondo’s new Netflix show? You’re in good company. Who knew sock folding could be such a phenomenon?I’m sure we’ve all got a lot of cleaning — er, “sparking joy” — to do today, so I’ll keep this week’s rundown of business news nice and tidy. Once you’re caught up, you’ll still have plenty of time to arrange all your T-shirts into neat little rectangles. It may not be quite as mesmerizing as watching strangers sort their laundry on television, but only just.JAN. 6-12The government shutdown continues to drag on, but at least tax refunds won’t be held up. The White House will order some Internal Revenue Service employees to return to work so that the tax filing season can begin and refunds can be issued. But this is a rare positive turn as the shutdown’s effects pile up. Crucial government loans have stalled. The Food and Drug Administration has stopped routine safety inspections of vegetables, fish, and other groceries (yikes). The Miami airport is closing a terminal because of a shortage of Transportation Security Administration officers. And despite volunteers' efforts, the public bathrooms at some national parks remain gross.You can stop fretting about loan rates going up, at least for now. The Fed is taking a more cautious approach to raising interest rates, according to documents released from its December meeting. Like the rest of us, officials are wary about downshifts in economic growth and trade tensions with China. (The latter seemed a bit less ominous after trade talks last week, but bigger sticking points have yet to be resolved.) The Fed still plans to increase rates twice this year, but probably not at its January or March meetings. As the Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, put it on Thursday, “We’re going to be patient and watching, and waiting and seeing.”CBS News made a surprise announcement on Sunday that Susan Zirinsky would succeed David Rhodes as its new (and first female) president. The inspiration for the ambitious, principled character played by Holly Hunter in the movie “Broadcast News,” Ms. Zirinsky has been at CBS for over four decades. She’s got her work cut out for her: The network has recently weathered numerous bombshells about its corporate culture and fired several prominent figures — most notably its morning show anchor Charlie Rose and its chief executive, Leslie Moonves — after they were accused of sexual misconduct.JAN. 13-19Yes, we’ve heard this before: The British Parliament will vote this Tuesday on a proposal for Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union. No one expects the beleaguered Brexit plan to pass, just as it didn’t back in December, and Prime Minister Theresa May is scrambling to pull together a backup strategy. Desperate measures may soon be in order, and Chancellor Sebastian Kurz of Austria became the first European Union leader to suggest an extension of Brexit’s March 29 deadline. But would more time change anybody’s mind?The six largest banks in the United States will report their fourth-quarter results this week. If they report lower than expected numbers, the news could be read as another canary in the coal mine for a potential economic slowdown. Most banks have booked record returns for almost a year, thanks to tax cuts and a humming economy, but volatile markets at the end of 2018 could have put an end to this streak. Citigroup will release its earnings on Monday, followed by JPMorgan and Wells Fargo on Tuesday and Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley and Bank of America on Wednesday.We haven’t heard much recently about Theranos, the seemingly miraculous blood-testing start-up that last year turned out to a giant fraud. But that may change on Monday, when a federal court in California holds a hearing on criminal charges against Theranos’s former chief executive, Elizabeth Holmes, and its former president, Ramesh “Sunny” Balwani (also Ms. Holmes’s erstwhile boyfriend). Indicted on charges of conspiracy and wire fraud last summer, they could each face prison sentences of up to 20 years.Lots of car news these days. The North American International Auto Show, one of the world’s biggest, hits Detroit on Monday; electric cars are expected to be a hot topic. Fiat Chrysler agreed on Wednesday to pay nearly $650 million to settle lawsuits over its use of illegal software on diesel vehicles to produce false results on emissions tests. Tangentially related: The Chrysler building — once New York City’s tallest structure — is for sale.$137 billion: The net worth of Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive and the world’s richest man. But that number may soon change, as Mr. Bezos and his wife of 25 years, MacKenzie Bezos, announced their divorce last Wednesday. Ms. Bezos, a novelist, may be entitled to a sizable stake in Amazon as well as half of all those billions, which would make her — you guessed it — the world’s richest woman.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)President Trump has long enjoyed the backing of one major lender: Deutsche Bank. David Enrich of the NYT has taken a deep look into their often turbulent relationship — which is now under investigation by prosecutors and Congress.Deutsche Bank courted Mr. Trump when no one else would. He had already gone bankrupt, and no Wall Street lender would back him. But bankers at Deutsche like Mike Offit and Justin Kennedy (the son of Justice Anthony Kennedy) lent him millions. Mr. Trump rewarded some bankers, after some prompting, with a trip to his Mar-a-Lago resort.It issued loans despite finding financial discrepancies. Deutsche Bank officials concluded that Mr. Trump was worth about $788 million, not his self-proclaimed $3 billion. And a senior banking executive told Mr. Enrich that he had told others that Mr. Trump had worked with people in the construction industry who were tied to organized crime.Only when Mr. Trump sued Deutsche Bank did its investment banking arm drop him as a client. But its private wealth arm, hungry for business, eventually took him back and lent him millions more.After the 2016 election, Deutsche Bank executives admitted to problems. They concluded that their colleagues had ignored many warning signs about Mr. Trump, including from internal “exposure reports.” Salesmen for the firm were warned not to utter Mr. Trump’s name in public.Now the bank is in investigators’ cross hairs, and plans to hand over extensive internal documentation to Congress and federal prosecutors. Rosemary Vrablic, Mr. Trump’s main private banker — “She is the boss,” he once told the NYT — expects to be called to testify on Capitol Hill.After Elon Musk accused the S.E.C. of trying to trample on his constitutional rights, the regulator hit back yesterday, reiterating its case that the Tesla chief should be held in contempt of court, Bloomberg reports.The S.E.C. says he’s violating a court settlement under which it agreed not to charge him with securities fraud. He was supposed to have lawyers vet any Tesla-related tweets before he posts them; the S.E.C. said he hadn’t done so even once.Mr. Musk had argued that the S.E.C.’s objection was to one tweet, which mentioned previously undisclosed production forecasts. But the regulator said that the settlement was meant to cover a wide variety of his statements.“Such brazen disregard of this court’s order is unacceptable and unworkable going forward,” the S.E.C. said.A lawyer for Mr. Musk plans to respond in court by Friday. According to Bloomberg, the lawyer, John Hueston, said that the response “would include documents reflecting the negotiation history between Musk and the S.E.C., which he said would undermine the S.E.C.’s new assertions.”More officials are seeking answers from Boeing about an automated piloting feature that may have played a role in two fatal crashes involving its 737 Max 8 airplane.• House and Senate committees are preparing to question F.A.A. leaders next month about the Max jets, with a focus on the stall-prevention system, according to the WSJ.• Canada’s aviation regulator is reviewing its validation of the American certification of the 737 Max, Marc Garneau, the nation’s transport minister, told reporters yesterday.• They join officials from the Justice Department and the Transportation Department, who are studying the Max jet’s development process. The Transportation Department inspector general’s office is also investigating if the F.A.A. took shortcuts in the jet’s safety approval.Boeing’s C.E.O., Dennis Muilenburg, spoke out yesterday, making his first substantive public comments about the crash. “Our hearts are heavy, and we continue to extend our deepest sympathies to the loved ones of the passengers and crew on board,” he said. He added that Boeing was “taking actions to fully ensure the safety of the 737 Max.”More: If demand for Max jets falters, Airbus might struggle to build its rival offering, the A320neo, fast enough.The semiconductor industry is looking at an impending deal between the U.S. and China, and it doesn’t like what it sees — whether the talks succeed or fail.Chip-makers fear unintended consequences from one of Washington’s key demands, the WSJ reports, that Beijing promise more than $1 trillion in purchases of American goods and services over six years:• “China has offered to buy $30 billion of U.S. chips over six years, industry officials said, essentially doubling U.S. semiconductor exports to China.”• “For Beijing to guarantee the sales would require it to put together a kind of quota system, industry officials argued, and that mechanism could later be used to dole out contracts to Chinese firms.”But their investors have priced in extra orders from China. Shares in companies like Intel and AMD have jumped in value by as much as 20 percent so far this year as hopes of a trade deal with Beijing have risen. All that could go away if the talks break down.So what to do? Chip-makers have asked the Trump administration “not to include them” in any agreement over boosted trade quotas, according to the WSJ. (They have expressed support for other parts of the trade deal, including protection of intellectual property.)One of the biggest questions surrounding the National Enquirer’s exposé of Jeff Bezos’ affair with Lauren Sanchez was how it got the photos and text messages that it published. The answer, according to the WSJ: They came from Ms. Sanchez’s brother.• “Michael Sanchez, the brother of Mr. Bezos’ lover, sold the billionaire’s secrets for $200,000 to the Enquirer’s publisher, said people familiar with the matter.”• “Mr. Sanchez began conversations last fall with the tabloid about his sister’s relationship with Mr. Bezos, the people said. The Enquirer by then had already been investigating whether Mr. Bezos and Ms. Sanchez were having an affair.”• But David Pecker, the head of the National Enquirer’s parent company, was “concerned Mr. Bezos would sue, forcing debt-laden American Media to expend resources to defend itself for a story executives believed was unlikely to sell well on newsstands.”• He was also advised that publishing the story might make the Enquirer look like it was doing the bidding of President Trump, who has publicly criticized Mr. Bezos.• Ultimately, of course, the story was published. But American Media’s financial backers, Chatham Asset Management, “conveyed their displeasure” about the fallout and “pressured Mr. Pecker to resolve the matter.”Kevin Tsujihara quit as the head of WarnerMedia’s Warner Bros. movie division yesterday, facing claims that he tried to further the career of an actress he had a sexual relationship with, Ed Lee of the NYT reports.Mr. Tsujihara is accused of helping Charlotte Kirk by putting her up for movie and TV parts. Rumors about his activities had swirled in Hollywood for a year, but were made public in a March 6 article in The Hollywood Reporter.He said that he decided to leave after talking with John Stankey, the head of WarnerMedia. But WarnerMedia said that the investigation would continue even after Mr. Tsujihara’s departure.It’s a black eye for WarnerMedia’s owner, AT&T. The telecom company considered the accusation before it promoted Mr. Tsujihara two weeks ago. Now it must fill his role while enduring a kind of scandal that it hasn’t experienced before. (Stacey Snider and Peter Chernin, both Hollywood veterans, may replace Mr. Tsujihara.)When the college admissions scandal news broke last week, it exposed how the SAT and ACT tests could be gamed. Bloomberg Businessweek spoke to Rebecca Kantar, the founder of a start-up called Imbellus, who thinks she knows how to shake things up.• Ms. Kantar says that standardized tests could be abused by the wealthy, through tutoring and fake scores, and give little insight about skills that will be useful in the future.• “The digital assessments Imbellus has developed resemble video games” that test decision-making, Romesh Ratnesar of Bloomberg writes. “Because each simulation delivers a unique user experience, they’re intended to be cheatproof.”• “We’re establishing that simulation-based assessments are a better medium for getting at deep-thinking skills than multiple-choice tests,” Ms. Kantar said.• So far, the company has raised $23.5 million in funding, and developed employee tests for McKinsey and Company and a few others.• “Kantar plans to begin giving the Imbellus test to high schoolers later this year,” Mr. Ratnesar writes. “She also says, without going into many details, that the company is bidding to take part in a federally funded national assessment that will test 100,000 students in 2022.”Fox News has hired Donna Brazile, the former interim Democratic Party chairwoman, as a commentator.UBS hired Bob Casey from SunTrust Robinson Humphrey and Robert Jackman from Outvest Capital as managing directors on its U.S. tech banking team.Goldman Sachs is aiming to have half of its junior banker hires in the U.S. be women.Deals• The European Central Bank’s top regulator said he didn’t approve of national champions, which could complicate a merger of Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank. (FT)• Levi Strauss will begin trading publicly on Thursday, marking a turnaround for the inventor of bluejeans. (NYT)• Wall Street keeps falling in love with risky, repackaged debt — and could get burned again. (NYT Op-Ed)• EasyJet dropped out of Delta Air Lines’ bid for the bankrupt Italian carrier Alitalia. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• White House economic advisers say President Trump can’t sustain his economic boom without an infrastructure spending bill and more tax cuts. (WaPo)• Mr. Trump demanded that G.M. reopen a big car plant in Ohio. (NYT)• The Justice Department will soon decide whether to charge Gregory Craig, a former Obama administration official, with violating foreign lobbying laws. (NYT)• Alan Krueger, an economist who served in the Clinton and Obama administrations, has died at 58. (NYT)• President Trump’s re-election campaign has reportedly spent $4.5 million on Facebook and Google ads this year — nearly twice as much as the entire Democratic field. (Axios)Brexit• The speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, moved to deny Prime Minister Theresa May a further vote on her proposed Brexit agreement. (NYT)• But the E.U. is reportedly planning to agree to a three- or nine-month delay on Brexit, which may be a change large enough for Mr. Bercow to permit another vote. (Guardian)Trade• As America focuses on its strategic relations with China, a question is emerging: Would Europe be able to cope without the U.S.? (Axios)• China’s Belt and Road initiative could revive the fortunes of a once-famous European port. (NYT)Tech• Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, said her top priority was cybertheats. (NYT)• The U.S. announced plans to build a $500 million supercomputer as it races to keep up with China. (NYT)• Facebook says that the video of the New Zealand mosque shootings was viewed 4,000 times before it was removed. Also: New Zealand and Australia have urged Facebook to police extremism; and how social media’s business model helped the video spread. (CNBC, Bloomberg, WaPo)• President Vladimir Putin of Russia signed a law that bans what the authorities regard as fake news. (Reuters)Best of the rest• How PG&E overlooked wildfire risks in favor of its bottom line. (NYT)• A survey of women in economics revealed widespread bias and nearly 100 accusations of sexual assault. (NYT)• The Fed uses so-called dot plots to show how its 19 officials expect interest rates to change — but investors seem increasingly confused. (WSJ)• Can sophisticated investors be defrauded? The courts keep saying no. (DealBook)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCities should treat rising rents like pollution and tax the companies that cause it.By E. Tammy KimMs. Kim is a journalist.On Wednesday, Microsoft announced a commitment of $500 million “to advance affordable housing solutions” in the greater Seattle area. While it was striking for the company to acknowledge how supremely difficult it is for “lower- and middle-income workers to afford to live close to where they work,” 95 percent of its commitment would be in the form of loans to housing developers, much of it for market-rate housing that will benefit more-affluent residents.What is needed in Seattle — as well as San Francisco; Austin, Tex.; New York City; Boulder, Colo.; and other urban areas where the rapid influx of high-paid tech workers has made housing unaffordable for nearly everyone else — isn’t a corporate takeover of housing policy but, rather, a per-employee “head tax” that would fund real investments in affordable housing, which should be a public good.The notion of a head tax isn’t unprecedented, even in Seattle. In May 2018, faced with a crisis of homelessness and housing insecurity, the Seattle City Council levied a fee of $275 per employee on corporations whose annual revenues exceed $20 million — the most conspicuous of which is Amazon. (Microsoft is based in nearby Redmond, Wash.) The tax would have raised a modest but useful sum to build affordable housing units and fund social services. But just weeks later, after Amazon hinted that it might leave Seattle altogether, the Council voted overwhelmingly to reverse its decision.It was a terrible loss for Seattle’s housing advocates, who were hoping for a systemic response to doubling rents, inhumanely fast evictions (Washington State has a three-day notice period) and a rise in the number of families living in their cars. And they were not reassured when, a few months after killing the head tax, Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, announced that he would pay a minimum wage of $15 per hour to all of its United States workers, a boost to low-wage warehouse and cafeteria workers. But in Seattle, where the minimum wage is now $16 for big employers, low wages cannot buy decent housing. The average rent in Seattle was nearly $2,000 in 2017, and nearly half of all renters spent more than 30 percent of their incomes on housing. For many workers, $15 or even $20 an hour, at 40 or 50 hours a week, means couch-surfing. At a deeper level, by rejecting taxation but agreeing to a wage increase, Amazon seemed to imply that corporations, rather than the government, should dictate the terms of redistribution. The same is true of Microsoft’s $500 million pledge: It subordinates public policy to a we-alone-can-fix-it hubris. Rather than becoming landlords, tech giants should pay their fair share. More and more cities are pushing them to do so. In November, voters in San Francisco approved Proposition C, a tax on large businesses that will fund homeless services. Down the peninsula, residents of East Palo Alto, where Amazon recently leased 214,000 square feet of office space for 1,300 new employees, approved a parcel tax on large plots of commercial real estate. In Google’s hometown, Mountain View, 70 percent of voters said yes to a per-employee tax to fund transportation and affordable housing. These California cities are providing the rest of the United States with a template to address the housing crisis: local, targeted taxes on large companies that employ a significant proportion of high earners. Such taxes could be based on square footage, the number of employees or even workers’ salary range, and would apply to any industry — not just tech — that puts pressure on the local housing market by suddenly hiring thousands of highly paid employees. Such measures do not make “businesses, pay a price for creating jobs,” as corporations opposing the Seattle head tax claimed. They are a tax on negative externalities — something akin to a pollution tax. A half-century ago, it seemed inconceivable that factories, smelters or power plants should have to account for the toxins they released into the air. But we have since accepted the idea that businesses should pay the public for the negative externalities they cause. Today, corporations must answer for increased rents and evictions, and for worsening traffic jams. Like air and water pollution, these costs are shared by all of us.Modestly taxing gentrification is unlikely to drive tech companies into suburbia; their employees increasingly prefer the amenities of city life. It’s true that a head tax could make one place less desirable than another — Amazon played off that fear with its implied threat to leave Seattle — but the answer is not for cities to give up billions of dollars in tax incentives. A better approach is for all metropolitan areas that are being transformed by the extremes of corporate wealth to enact redistributive policies focused on housing justice. There are many possible solutions: Across the country, local advocates are pushing for increased housing subsidies, rent-stabilization laws, renter protections to prevent arbitrary eviction, permanently affordable public and private housing, community land trusts, and free legal representation and emergency funds to prevent tenants from being evicted. Some combination of these measures, deployed on a large scale — and funded through corporate taxes — is needed to address what is so clearly a crisis.Call it a head tax or a luxury tax. But recognize what is behind it: the rapid rise of companies employing tens of thousands of high-earning workers has caused, and will continue to cause, displacement. This has happened in the Seattle area and Silicon Valley, and it will soon happen in Long Island City and Northern Virginia, where Amazon will add two new headquarters. Unaffordable rents are not a personal failing or an inevitable outcome of the market; they are a corporate externality as toxic as smog or acid rain.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.E. Tammy Kim is a contributing opinion writer for The New York Times, and a co-author and co-editor of Punk Ethnography, a book about the politics of contemporary world music. Her work has appeared in The New York Times Magazine, The New York Review of Books, The Nation, The New Yorker and many other outlets.  Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressNEW YORK — Woody Allen breached his four-movie deal with the online giant by making statements about the #MeToo movement that damaged prospects for promoting his films, an Amazon lawyer said Friday.Attorney Robert Klieger told U.S. District Judge Denise Cote that the company protected itself after Allen made ""public comments that at a minimum were insensitive to the #MeToo movement.""The hearing was related to a lawsuit Allen filed in February seeking at least $68 million in damages. The lawsuit said Amazon ended his 2017 contract in June without ever releasing a completed film, ""A Rainy Day in New York.""Allen was not in court. John Quinn, his lawyer, told the judge that Seattle-based Amazon initially claimed it was ending the deal because of allegations made against Allen, not because of his recent statements.""The baseless allegations against Mr. Allen are decades old,"" Quinn said. He added that the claims were well known when Amazon signed its deal with Allen in August 2017.Allen's adopted daughter, Dylan Farrow, said in 1992 that Allen molested her in an attic when she was 7. Allen has repeatedly denied it.In 2014, Farrow wrote about the allegations and then appeared in an interview early last year for the first time.Quinn said Amazon has since changed its explanation for terminating the contract to blaming Allen for making statements saying that the #MeToo movement should not become a witch hunt.The lawyer said the company had also cited claims that people in the industry won't work with Allen.Regardless, Quinn said, Allen planned to produce a new movie this summer.In court papers, Amazon noted that Allen's son, Ronan Farrow, published an article in The New Yorker just weeks after the company signed its contract with Allen. The article detailed reports of sexual misconduct against movie producer Harvey Weinstein. Weinstein has denied non-consensual sexual conduct occurred.""The article became the catalyst for a broad reckoning over the persistence of sexual harassment in entertainment and other industries,"" Amazon's lawyers wrote.They said Allen then made a series of public comments ""suggesting that he failed to grasp the gravity of the issues or the implications for his own career.""They cited several quotes by Allen in a magazine article including: ""You don't want it to lead to a witch-hunt atmosphere, a Salem atmosphere, where every guy in an office who winks at a woman is suddenly having to call a lawyer to defend himself.""They also noted that after Dylan Farrow recounted her memories of sexual abuse in January 2018, Allen publicly dismissed the statements in a newspaper article as ""cynically using"" #MeToo for attention.Klieger told the judge Allen's public comments resulted in controversy ""in Hollywood and outside of Hollywood.""The effect of the comments mean the pictures can no longer be made or promoted, Klieger said.After hearing both lawyers, the judge set a case schedule stretching into next year.Allen and possibly Amazon founder Jeff Bezos, among others, were likely to provide depositions unless the case is resolved through private mediation in coming weeks.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byINTERNATIONALAn article on Friday about Britain’s chief medical officers calling for restrictions on children’s use of screens and social media misidentified the organization that set guidelines for children’s use of media in the United States. It is the American Academy of Pediatrics, not the American Association of Pediatrics.•An article on Jan. 31 about Russian influence in Venezuela referred incompletely to the countries in Latin America that support President Nicolás Maduro. In addition to Nicaragua and Cuba, Bolivia and Suriname also support him.NEW YORKAn article on Monday about a prosecutor’s decision to drop an abortion charge in a Queens murder case misspelled the surname of Anthony Hobson’s defense lawyer. He is Steven Questore, not Questlore.BUSINESSAn article on Saturday about a new business venture by Les Moonves, the former chief executive of CBS, referred imprecisely to the payment of legal fees incurred by Mr. Moonves. Although CBS paid some of Mr. Moonves’s legal fees, it is not paying them amid an arbitration fight over his severance.•Because of an editing error, an article on Saturday about federal prosecutors’ investigation of Jeff Bezos’ extortion claims against American Media Inc. misspelled the name of the crown prince of Saudi Arabia. He is Mohammed bin Salman, not Salmans.OBITUARIESAn obituary on Tuesday about the illustrator and author Tomi Ungerer misstated when Maurice Sendak began working with the book editor Ursula Nordstrom. She had already published work by Mr. Sendak before she published Mr. Ungerer’s first children’s book, “The Mellops Go Flying”; she did not work with Mr. Ungerer first.Errors are corrected during the press run whenever possible, so some errors noted here may not have appeared in all editions.To contact the newsroom regarding correction requests, complaints or other comments about our coverage, please email nytnews@nytimes.com or call 1-844-NYT-NEWS (1-844-698-6397).Comments on editorials may be emailed to letters@nytimes.com or faxed to (212) 556-3622.For newspaper delivery questions: 1-800-NYTIMES (1-800-698-4637) or email customercare@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Monday. Alternate-side parking: Suspended on Monday and Tuesday for snow removal.Weather: The snow has moved out of New York City and the surrounding area. Still, temperatures across the region are forecast to remain close to freezing this morning, which may mean hazardous conditions on area roads throughout the day and into the evening.Watch out for ice, especially slippery streets and walkways.As of 10 a.m., at least 10,000 homes and businesses were without power across New York, New Jersey and Connecticut, according to local utility companies.Morning commute: With the snowfall stopping well before rush hour, the subways ran without significant weather-related delays through the morning commute. The Long Island Rail Road and Metro North also reported good service.New Jersey Transit did not report any major cancellations or delays to service but advised commuters to check its website throughout the day for information. It also said it was allowing customers to use their tickets or passes on rail, light rail, buses and private carriers.All New York City public schools are closed today, and many other school systems around the region are closed or opened late.The City University of New York also announced it would be closed.[Was Mayor de Blasio too quick to close city schools?]The snow: Up to 10 inches of snow had been expected to fall overnight, and officials had warned that the most intense precipitation could come just before the commute.Around 4 a.m., the wintry mix began tapering off.In Central Park, 5 inches of snow had fallen by 6:48 a.m., according to the National Weather Service. Parts of New York and New Jersey had more than a half-foot of snow, the weather service said, and snowfall totals were close to a foot in parts of Connecticut.Get the latest snowfall totals here.By midmorning, the lingering clouds will clear. Expect a high near 38 and a windchill that could make it feel in the 20s.If you’re cranky about your Monday morning, it could be worse.There’s a major cold snap across much of the central and eastern regions of the country. Temperatures in the Midwest were expected be 20 to 30 degrees below normal. Subzero wind chills were forecast in the Northern Plains.The bottom line: Wear your boots, and layer up. And expect longer commutes this morning.Last year, Amazon announced plans to open a major campus in New York City.On Valentine’s Day, it called the whole thing off.Then, Governor Cuomo began a campaign to woo it back.Here’s what you need to know:• The Times broke the news that Mr. Cuomo had spoken to multiple Amazon executives by phone over the last two weeks, including the company’s owner, Jeff Bezos. That they even took his calls after the deal’s collapse is a ray of hope for supporters.• The Times also reported that a prominent critic of the plan, State Senator Michael Gianaris, is no longer set to join an obscure state panel that could have given him veto power over the deal. Leroy Comrie, a Queens state senator, recently replaced Mr. Gianaris as the nominee to the panel, known as the Public Authorities Control Board.• The day after that news broke, a full-page ad appeared in The Times, signed by more than 70 prominent supporters, urging Mr. Bezos to reconsider. The ad said Mr. Cuomo would “take personal responsibility for the project’s state approval.”• On the day the ad appeared, Mr. Cuomo said in a radio interview that Mr. Gianaris and another prominent critic of the deal, Councilman Jimmy Van Bramer, were “irrelevant because there are other ways the state can get it done.”• As one Albany reporter humorously noted, Mr. Cuomo’s latest push seemed to resemble an article from the satirical news outlet The Onion, which pictured the governor furiously chasing down a limousine carrying Mr. Bezos.The takeaway: This is not all about Amazon. The company hasn’t commented, and Mr. Cuomo said he had no reason to believe the deal was back on. But Mr. Cuomo is signaling to other businesses: New York is still primed for deals that create jobs.• Top shelf: How the New York Public Library chooses its books.• Schooled: Animals are helping teach children with special needs on campuses just outside New York City.• Big City: Mayor de Blasio may be a liability for Democrats in 2020,  columnist Ginia Bellafante says.• Trump’s money man: A profile of Allen Weisselberg, Mr. Trump’s chief financial officer, whom Michael Cohen mentioned more than 20 times during congressional testimony last week.• At the ballet: A critic says there has been progress, but not equality at the New York City Ballet, which just appointed new leadership.• Modern Love: The actor Andrew Rannells was set on becoming a Broadway star while dating the competition.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.• Again: Another elite school, another racial controversy. This time, in Brooklyn Heights. [Daily News]• A.O.C.’s chief of staff: A conservative group claimed Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez’s chief of staff may have circumvented campaign finance law. [New York Post]• Rezoning: Artists in NoHo and SoHo are concerned that the proposed rezoning of their neighborhoods will lead to displacement. [Curbed]• Back story: The movie “Green Book” was based on real events that began in New York City. [WNYC]Because of the winter storm, it’s best to check before you go.Every Monday during Women’s History Month, the Hamilton Fish library branch will screen a movie about trailblazing women, starting today with “Hidden Figures.” 11 a.m. [Free]A night of barbecue and board games at Queens Bully in Forest Hills. 6 p.m. [Free with food or drink purchase]The New York Public Library’s dance division celebrates its 75th anniversary at the Bruno Walter Auditorium on the Upper West Side. 6 p.m. [Free]An interactive puppet show about the New York City subway at the William Vale hotel in Williamsburg. 4 p.m. [$20, includes complimentary wine]— Iman StevensonEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Mardi Gras, which ends Tuesday, is a celebration of the decadent. So is New York.And yet, Mardi Gras’s famous dessert — the king cake — never really arrived in New York.The cakes are large yeasted pastries (more of a cinnamon roll than a birthday cake) topped with icing and glittery sprinkles. A plastic baby is hidden inside the loaf. Whoever gets the slice with the figurine inside is “king” for the day and obligated to host next year’s Mardi Gras party.“No one has a king cake” in New York, said St. John Frizell, a restaurateur who lived in New Orleans for a decade before moving here in 1999.He was exaggerating, but only a little. A handful of New York establishments sell it, including Whole Foods and some fancy bakeries.Yet, finding good king cake is hard. One man jokingly wrote on Twitter that he was quitting his job “to open a full-time king cake bakery in NYC because I can’t find a single place that reliably sells them.”By now, it’s too late to order the real stuff from New Orleans. And even the delicious-looking substitutes offered by the Doughnut Plant are, somehow, not quite the same.When asked if he served king cake at his restaurant in Red Hook, Mr. Frizell laughed.“You would never see it at a restaurant,” he said. “You do want to experience it, not for the taste but for the sensation of sharing with friends and family at Mardi Gras time.”If you’d like to try making a king cake for your house party, try this New York Times Cooking recipe that serves up to 12.It’s Sunday — dish up something for your friends.Thinking of Our BenchDear Diary:I was thinking of our bench in Central Park today,The one across from the dirt-patch field that seemed to catch each gust of wind.The one where we said that very sorry goodbyeThat floated in the air,Joining the other goodbyesOn that very benchIn that very parkIn this very city.— Diana SanchezNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Christina Goldbaum and Michael Gold contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, The National Enquirer is for sale, and Elon Musk must make nice with the S.E.C.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.You're a busy person, so here's your quick and breezy catch-up on the latest in tech and business news, plus what to know for the week ahead. Your Monday self will be better for it.APRIL 7-13Your ride is (almost) here, but how much is it worth? Uber’s widely anticipated initial public offering, on track for early May, is said to aim for a valuation of $90 billion to $100 billion. That’s significantly lower than the $120 billion that many investors had expected, although it would still be the largest I.P.O. since 2014. Why the falling numbers? For one thing, the ride-sharing company lost $1.8 billion last year, and its growth is slowing. Plus, everyone has been taking note of what happened after the recent I.P.O. of Uber’s smaller rival Lyft. Its shares have already dropped roughly 20 percent below their offering price. The National Enquirer, the checkout-line mainstay known for peddling headlines about aliens on the moon and, more recently, aiding President Trump’s 2016 candidacy, is for sale. The tabloid is led by David J. Pecker, a longtime friend of Mr. Trump’s, and there’s word of a surprising potential buyer: the billionaire Ron Burkle, a Democratic donor with ties to former President Bill Clinton. The publication came under scrutiny for helping Mr. Trump’s political rise by buying the rights to a story from a Playboy model who said she had an affair with him and then never publishing it — a tabloid practice known as catch-and-kill. The Enquirer is now under federal investigation for claims that it threatened Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, with “extortion and blackmail” after exposing details about his extramarital affair. Just what no one wanted: Six more months of Brexit drama. European Union leaders agreed on Wednesday to extend Britain’s withdrawal deadline — again — this time to Oct. 31. Now, British lawmakers will have more time to argue over their long-overdue departure plan, which they’ve already had three years to discuss. While they haggle, businesses will continue to plan for the worst until Brexit trade policies are settled, compromising the country’s economic growth. On the upside, Britain did not crash out of the bloc on Friday without a deal, which could have wreaked economic havoc. But is the extension just prolonging the inevitable? APRIL 14-20Thursday is the deadline for Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, and the Securities and Exchange Commission to work out their differences on Mr. Musk’s Twitter practices. A federal judge in New York has asked both parties to submit a joint letter with clear guidelines about Mr. Musk’s tweets — namely, when Mr. Musk must get approval from a Tesla lawyer before posting. The S.E.C. sought more oversight of Mr. Musk’s communications after he tweeted erroneous information about Tesla more than once, first about taking the company private and later about its production numbers. (Presumably, he will be allowed to keep tweeting about cheese-related flatulence and multicolored squirrels whenever he pleases, as he recently did.) A jury will get to decide whether Apple owes money to the chip manufacturer Qualcomm, which might sound dull if not for the cast of tech stars involved. Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, and Steve Mollenkopf, his counterpart at Qualcomm, are both expected to take the stand at the trial, which begins in San Diego this week. Top brass from other technology companies, like the manufacturing giant Foxconn, are also expected to testify. The showdown is a culmination of a two-year global fight between tech giants, with Qualcomm seeking back payment for chips used in iPhones and Apple disputing Qualcomm’s claims to certain technology. More big banks will release their first-quarter earnings this coming week, and the results may be stronger than expected if JPMorgan’s report on Friday was any indication. Analysts had lowered their projections for bank profits in recent months for a mix of reasons, including the slowing economy and the Federal Reserve’s changing stance on interest rates. Banks’ performances are often seen as a litmus test for overall economic health, and the latest numbers may offer clues to how much we should be worried about a recession — or whether we’re overly paranoid. Disney unveiled plans to take on Netflix with its own streaming service, which will cost $7 a month when it becomes available on Nov. 12. In other news, J. Crew is considering a spinoff of its smaller, fast-growing brand Madewell to raise some much-needed cash. Speaking of crunches, Boeing still has no timetable for getting its grounded 737 Max jets back in the air, and the costs of fixing the planes — and convincing regulators, airlines and passengers that they’re safe to fly — are starting to pile up.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSAN FRANCISCO/SHANGHAI — Amazon.com Inc plans to close its domestic marketplace in China by mid-July, people familiar with the matter told Reuters, focusing efforts on more lucrative businesses selling overseas goods and cloud services in the world's most populous nation.Amazon shoppers in China will no longer be able to buy goods from third-party merchants in the country, but they still will be able to order from the United States, Britain, Germany and Japan via the firm's global store. Amazon expects to close fulfillment centers and wind down support for domestic-selling merchants in China in the next 90 days, one of the people said.The move underscores how entrenched, home-grown e-commerce rivals have made it difficult for Amazon's marketplace to gain a foothold. Consumer insights firm iResearch Global said Alibaba Group Holding Ltd's Tmall marketplace and JD.com Inc controlled 81.9 percent of the Chinese market last year.""They're pulling out because it's not profitable and not growing,"" said analyst Michael Pachter at Wedbush Securities.Ker Zheng, marketing specialist at Shenzhen-based e-commerce consultancy Azoya, said Amazon had no major competitive advantage in China over its domestic rivals. Unless someone is searching for a very specific imported good that can't be found elsewhere, ""there's no reason for a consumer to pick Amazon because they're not going to be able to ship things as fast as Tmall or JD,"" he said.Amazon's customers in China will still be able to purchase the firm's Kindle e-readers and online content, and the company's local website, amazon.cn, will continue to exist, said the sources, who spoke on condition of anonymity. Amazon Web Services, the company's cloud computing unit that sells data storage and computing power to enterprises, will remain as well.The U.S.-listed shares of Alibaba and JD.com rose 1 percent on Wednesday after Reuters first reported the move, before paring gains later in the day. Amazon's shares closed flat.U.S. RETREATThe withdrawal of the world's largest online retailer - founded by Jeff Bezos, who later became the world's richest person - comes amid a broader e-commerce slowdown in China. Alibaba in January reported its lowest quarterly earnings growth since 2016, while JD.com is responding to the changing business environment with staff cuts.It also follows the Chinese e-commerce retreat of other big-name Western retailers. Walmart Inc sold its Chinese online shopping platform to JD.com in 2016 in return for a stake in JD.com to focus on its bricks-and-mortar stores. Similarly, the country appears to factor less in the global aspirations of fellow U.S. tech majors Netflix Inc, Facebook Inc and Alphabet Inc's Google, Wedbush Securities' Pachter said.Amazon bought Chinese online shopping website Joyo.com in 2004 for $75 million, rebranding the business in 2011 as Amazon China. But in a sign of Tmall's dominance, Amazon opened an online store on the Alibaba site in 2015.Amazon is still expanding aggressively in other countries, notably India, where it is contending with local rival Flipkart. (Reporting by Jeffrey Dastin in SAN FRANCISCO, Cate Cadell and Pei Li in BEIJING, Kane Wu in HONG KONG and Josh Horwitz and Brenda Goh in SHANGHAI; Editing by Susan Thomas and Christopher Cushing)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this ny email? Sign up here.)Saudi Aramco began a road show to pitch prospective investors on a $10 billion bond offering, providing a peek into the state-owned oil company’s books — and showing how incredibly profitable it is.Aramco made $111.1 billion in profit last year, according to data provided to credit ratings agencies. That means it was the world’s most profitable company in 2018, Bloomberg notes, making more than Apple and Alphabet combined.The company produced 13.6 million barrels of oil equivalent a day last year, which far surpasses any other producer, such as Royal Dutch Shell or BP.The disclosures finally shed light on the oil company’s finances and operations. (They were necessary as part of the bond offering that will support Aramco’s $69 billion deal to buy control of a Saudi chemical company, Sabic.)Credit ratings agencies were impressed. Moody’s assigned Aramco’s bonds an A1 rating (though still below the Aaa that it gave to Exxon Mobil). The agency said the biggest risk to the rating was any downgrade to Saudi Arabia’s own financial picture.Facebook’s C.E.O. wrote an opinion piece for the WaPo on Saturday laying out how he believes his company should be treated. His top policy executive, Nick Clegg, echoed its points in an interview with Politico. Here’s how Mike Isaac of the NYT reads between the lines:• Harmful content. Mr. Zuckerberg called for lawmakers to decide “what counts as terrorist propaganda, hate speech and more.” By adhering to the letter of the law, Facebook can effectively shield itself from blame if something goes awry.• Election protection. “Our systems would be more effective if regulation created common standards for verifying political actors,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. That would serve Facebook well, Mr. Isaac writes: “When the next erroneous outburst inevitably occurs, Facebook could point toward the law it was forced to follow.”• Privacy and data protection issues. “I believe it would be good for the internet if more countries adopted regulation such as G.D.P.R. as a common framework,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote, referring to Europe’s data protection rule. If laws are enacted to limit data collection in the future, Mr. Isaac notes, Facebook might be able to squash smaller competitors.• Data portability. “Regulation should guarantee the principle of data portability,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. Facebook claims its users would be able to freely take their information from one network to the next, Mr. Isaac says. But in reality, data portability could help the company combine its platforms, which include Instagram and WhatsApp.More: Facebook will start explaining why people are being shown content in their news feed. The company “mistakenly deleted” many of Mr. Zuckerberg’s old posts. And lawmakers in Australia and New Zealand want to ban “weaponized” social media.As the two countries nudge ever closer to striking an agreement, Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT explain how one of its key tenets could undercut Washington’s vision:• “Any agreement seems certain to involve China’s promise to purchase hundreds of billions of dollars of American goods. For Mr. Trump, this is an essential element that will help reduce the United States’ record trade deficit with China.”• “But those purchases will be ordered by the Chinese state, and most will be carried out by state-controlled Chinese businesses, further cementing Beijing’s role in managing its economy and potentially making United States industries even more beholden to the Chinese.”“Both sides are trying to iron out an agreement by next week, to coincide with a visit to Washington by Liu He, the Chinese special envoy charged with negotiating the deal,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Bradsher write. The goal is reportedly “to have an agreement by the end of that meeting, with a signing ceremony between Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China potentially later this month.”But there are still sticking points. “Those include how an agreement will be monitored and enforced, and how many of Mr. Trump’s tariffs come off and when,” according to Ms. Swanson and Mr. Bradsher.The ride-hailing company began trading on the public markets on Friday, with its stock closing up about 9 percent. But the file of winners is bigger than just those who bought into the stock before it listed:• Gig economy start-ups. Lyft showed that there’s interest in the public markets for companies that rely on part-time employees. (But the big question is still whether they can ever make money.)• The Golden State, truly. Lyft’s success bodes well for its home state, California, which is set to collect a capital-gains tax bonanza from the tech companies planning to go public this year. Alejandro Lazo of the WSJ reports that the state is already expected to draw nearly 10 percent of its revenue for the next fiscal year from tech I.P.O.s — a figure that could grow if the offerings perform better than expected.• Uber. The world’s largest ride-hailing company will probably be heartened by Lyft’s success. One unnamed investor told the FT that a $120 billion valuation for Uber now “doesn’t look too unreasonable.”Who didn’t win: Anyone who bought shares in Lyft after it listed on the Nasdaq.More: Meet the V.C.s who are expected to be big winners from the coming wave of tech I.P.O.s.After rejecting Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal deal for a third time on Friday, British lawmakers will attempt again to come up with an alternative.Parliament will vote on options later today. There are eight proposals, none of which won a majority when they were voted on last week. John Bercow, the speaker of the House of Commons, may trim down the options, which could force cohesion around a plan. Mrs. May continues to scramble. The FT reports that she is considering a fourth vote on her deal, while she grapples with a breakdown of trust inside her Conservative Party.If Parliament remains deadlocked, Britain faces a choice: Leave the European Union without a deal on April 12, or ask Brussels for another extension.There is a feeling of anger and embarrassment. “In interviews, many Britons expressed despair over the inability of the political system to produce a compromise,” Ellen Barry and Benjamin Mueller of the NYT write. “No one feels that the government has represented their interests. No one is satisfied. No one is hopeful. It has amounted to a hollowing out of confidence in democracy itself.”More:  There is at least one Brexit winner in Britain: the corporate law industry, which is profiting from companies trying to prepare.The Amazon chief’s security consultant accused the Saudi government of gaining unauthorized access to Mr. Bezos’ phone, Karen Weise of the NYT reports:• “In an opinion article in The Daily Beast on Saturday, Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ security chief, alleged the Saudis wanted to hurt Mr. Bezos because he owns The Washington Post. The Post has aggressively reported on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, one of its columnists, who was killed last year in Turkey.”• “Mr. de Becker’s claims about the Saudis are difficult to verify and raise many questions. Throughout his article, the security consultant was vague on details.”• “On Sunday, American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, which first reported earlier this year that Mr. Bezos was having an extramarital affair, issued a statement denying ‘the false and unsubstantiated claims of Mr. de Becker.’ ”State lawmakers reached a $175 billion budget deal over the weekend. It promises sweeping changes to the way New Yorkers commute, shop and live, the NYT reports.Congestion pricing — a first in the U.S. — will subject vehicles traveling below 60th Street in Manhattan to a toll. The revenue will go toward the subway and other transportation projects. Specifics, like what the charge will be, have been deferred to other authorities.The state also banned single-use plastic shopping bags, following California and Hawaii.But it dropped plans for a recurring “pied-à-terre tax” of 5 percent on the value of high-end second homes, after opposition from the real estate industry. Instead, lawmakers adopted a “mansion tax” and a real estate transfer tax, two one-time charges that would top out at 4.15 percent on the sale of properties worth at least $25 million.The Louis Dreyfus Company reportedly ousted Gonzalo Ramírez Martiarena as C.E.O. after he started holding deal talks with rivals.Alok Sama, the C.F.O. of SoftBank’s international arm, is reportedly leaving the Japanese tech giant.Deals• The activist hedge fund Starboard Value has dropped its campaign against Bristol-Myers Squibb’s deal to buy Celgene. (CNBC)• The talent agency Endeavor is reportedly preparing an I.P.O. later this year. (WSJ)• Vivendi withdrew a motion to replace directors of Telecom Italia, conceding defeat to Elliott Management. (Bloomberg)• Jonathan Lavine, a managing partner of Bain Capital, worries that private equity firms are piling too much debt onto their deals. (FT)• European lenders are starting to grow wary of giving money to WeWork. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• President Trump reportedly thinks that a lawsuit to overturn the Affordable Care Act — which his administration is backing — will fail. (Axios)• A federal judge ruled against the White House’s plan to open up the Arctic Ocean for oil drilling. (NYT)• Joe Biden scrambled to defend himself after a former Nevada lawmaker accused him of inappropriately kissing and touching her. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren has lost her presidential campaign’s finance director after a disagreement over abandoning big-ticket donors. (NYT)• Mr. Trump reportedly wants to “save” Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s seat on the Supreme Court for Amy Coney Barrett, a conservative federal judge who opposes abortion. (Axios)Boeing• The inquiry into the fatal Ethiopian Airlines crash is said to believe a faulty anti-stall sensor was to blame. (NYT)• “Pitch up, pitch up”: the final minutes of the doomed flight. (WSJ)• U.S. and Ethiopian investigators are reportedly clashing over the investigation. (WSJ)Tech• The initial coin offering market has ground to a halt. (WSJ)• Google has stopped serving ads in China for two websites that help bypass censorship. Skeptics say the move is an attempt to appeal to Beijing. (FT)• Alphabet’s A.I. subsidiary, DeepMind, is readying its first commercial product: a device that will diagnose some complex eye diseases in real time. (FT)• Some consumers are accusing Tesla of using upselling tricks to move more expensive cars. (Quartz)Best of the rest• Michael Avenatti has taken on many high-profile legal fights, but his biggest yet is his own court case. (NYT)• How the financier Morrie Tobin became the whistle-blower in the college admissions scandal. (LAT)• A federal judge wants to limit PG&E’s dividends to force the utility to reduce the risk of causing California wildfires. (WSJ)• How tens of thousands of far-right extremists helped swindle $1 billion from the federal government. (NYT)• Burger King is introducing a meat-free “Impossible Whopper.” (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNo RegretsTimothée Chalamet went to the Amazon party. Taylor Swift was at InStyle. And Jon Voight was in the hallway.22 PhotosView Slide Show ›By Ben WiddicombeThey sought her here, they sought her there. They sought Lady Gaga everywhere.At the half-dozen parties held at the Beverly Hilton hotel following the Golden Globes on Sunday night, it seemed as though every celebrity was looking for the singer and nominated actress, if only to touch the hem of her enormous periwinkle gown.“I wanted to meet Lady Gaga, I really did,” said Chuck Lorre, who won a Globe for producing Netflix’s “The Kominsky Method.” “I would have said thank you for all the great work she does.”But the artist was not present. After winning for best song (and losing in the best acting category) Lady Gaga somehow managed to vanish in a puff of Valentino taffeta. (Her rep noted that she stopped by one party, hosted by InStyle and Warner Bros.)Other stars were there to be seen but not heard. At Amazon’s after-party, held at the hotel’s Stardust Penthouse, Timothée Chalamet begged off interviews so he could dance with his mother, Nicole Flender.Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder and chief executive, stood nearby grinning from ear to ear, surrounded by a trio of statuesque women in sequined and metallic dresses. He, too, declined an interview.Mr. Bezos placed a morsel from the raw seafood bar into his mouth, but immediately spat it back into a napkin. “Bad oyster,” he said.Elsewhere in the hotel, the talk turned to the night’s political tone.“I thought tonight was perfect, because it was still celebratory and there were some very poignant and powerful political moments,” said Patricia Clarkson, who was at the HBO party, clutching her Globe for best supporting actress in “Sharp Objects.” “I’m thankful to these women for speaking out. It’s changed everything.”In the hallway outside, Regina King, who won for best supporting actress in “If Beale Street Could Talk,” was swarmed by well-wishers congratulating her on an acceptance speech in which she pledged to include “50 percent women” in projects she produced.Ms. King said her remarks were ad-libbed. “You don’t want to ever prepare a speech, because you feel like you may jinx yourself,” she said. “But then the moment happens and your mind just rushes.”At the Netflix party, Alfonso Cuarón celebrated his best director award for “Roma.” “Art by essence is political, no matter what kind of film you do,” he said. “It’s not a political event, but I think the politics come out of the films.”Laura Dern went further. “If you’re a public figure and you’re given a mic, there’s a lot to say right now,” she said, standing by a towering arrangement of roses at the InStyle party. She barely noticed Taylor Swift and her boyfriend, Joe Alwyn, who moved so fluidly across the red carpet and then immediately out a side door that they seemed to be passing through some kind of celebrity digestive tract.“Outrageous acts within our own country occur, like the incarceration of children who are seeking asylum in this country, and are risking violence in these camps,” Ms. Dern added. “Hopefully we keep talking about it.”Standing at the other end of the hotel, and the ideological spectrum, was Jon Voight. The conservative actor sees the prevailing political winds in Hollywood as oppressive, rather than liberating.“People are very cautious about what they say now, and they didn’t use to be,” Mr. Voight said, who was in the hallway, presumably heading to a party. He wore a fringed white scarf over his tuxedo. “The generation before my generation was very patriotic, and it’s changed, and that’s unfortunate.”Still, Mr. Voight agreed with his fellow actors on one thing. “I hope I bump into Lady Gaga, who’s just terrific,” he said. “A huge talent, and I think she’s a really nice gal, too.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Thursday. Tonight is the debut of Showtime’s “Desus & Mero.” Its first guest is Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez.Weather: It’s a no-umbrella day. Drier and warmer right through tomorrow.Alternate-side parking: Suspended today for snow removal. The next scheduled suspension will be on March 6 (Ash Wednesday).Few jobs guarantee upward mobility. But there is one job that seems like a pretty good springboard: New York City public advocate.[The race for public advocate: 7 factors that will help decide who wins.]Of the four people who have held the position since it was created in 1993, two went on to higher office (Letitia James and Bill de Blasio), and one came within a hair of becoming mayor (Mark Green — remember him?).The fourth, Betsy Gotbaum, didn’t run for higher office but took over a nonprofit organization and was recently called “the godmother of good government.”The office is vacant, and 17 people are running for it.There is a special election on Tuesday, and because there is no primary, and no runoff if the top finisher gets less than 40 percent of the vote, it appears that anyone could win. A handful of votes could be decisive.The election is also nonpartisan.Am I registered to vote?Check this state website.Where do I vote?Look up your polling location on this site, created by the School of International and Public Affairs at Columbia University.What are the issues?One is Amazon. Most candidates acknowledged that they purchased goods from the company, but also said that they opposed its plan to build a headquarters in Long Island City. Only Eric Ulrich, a Republican city councilman from Queens, said he supported the deal.Another is diversity. The mayor, city comptroller and City Council speaker are all white men. That doesn’t reflect New York’s population.Some candidates said that the next public advocate could add more diversity to the field of citywide officeholders. Roughly two-thirds of the 17 candidates are people of color, and four are women.How long will the winner serve?Only through the end of the year. There’s a primary for the position in June and a general election in November. The winner of that race will serve the remainder of Ms. James’s term, which ends in 2021.Who is running?My colleague Jeffery C. Mays has a list and a detailed look at the race.The Times’s Patrick McGeehan reports:Is it possible that the world’s richest man-in-the-news could waltz into Midtown Manhattan in broad daylight and not make headlines?Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, above left, pulled off that trick yesterday, appearing at the Yale Club without addressing the topics the news media was buzzing about.He didn’t talk about his company’s withdrawal from a deal to build a second headquarters in New York. Or his claim that The National Enquirer publisher had tried to blackmail him with copies of intimate pictures.His audience, after all, was not the media but the Wings Club, a group of aviation industry professionals. And his purpose was to brief them on his space-travel company, Blue Origin.Attendees said Mr. Bezos mentioned Amazon only in passing and offered nothing about its plan to use drones to deliver packages. He didn’t even go for a laugh by joking about the helipad Amazon had requested in New York.Shortly after 2 p.m., Mr. Bezos, having fielded no unscripted questions, hustled into an S.U.V.Subway fatality: A man died at Grand Central Station after a train pulled him into a tunnel. Cohen sentence: Michael Cohen, President Trump’s former lawyer, must report to prison on May 6 instead of next month.Background story: New York’s new sex-abuse law was pushed by a lawmaker who said she was driven by her son’s experience.Cash discrimination: New York City may join a national push to prevent stores from not accepting customers paying by cash.Pizza upgrade: The Brooklyn brothers who pioneered the dollar pizza slice have a new shop, with a $3 slice.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.El Chapo juror: An account of the deliberations, from an anonymous juror. [Vice News]Taxi medallion bailout: Two City Council members are working on it. [New York Post]Off beat: The police officer who married the country music star Miranda Lambert is no longer patrolling Times Square. [New York Post]Honoring Anthony Bourdain: New Jersey lawmakers may make a food trail to honor the late chef. [Food and Wine]Last call? The owner of the Moore Bar and Lounge said that it was the last black-owned L.G.B.T.Q. club in New York City, and that it might close. [NBC]Watch “The Lost Tapes: Malcolm X” at the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, in Harlem. 3 p.m. [Free]Rena Anakwe’s performance based on a “water ritual” at the Issue Project Room in Downtown Brooklyn. 8 p.m. [$10 suggested donation]A conversation about the Jewish socialist movement of the late 1800s and early 1900s at the Museum of Jewish Heritage in Battery Park City. 7 p.m. [Free]— Elisha Brown Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.On display at the Society of Illustrators is the work of Dale Messick, the “grand dame of the funnies.”She got her start thanks to The New York Daily News. Sort of.Ms. Messick, above, was born in Indiana but found her way to New York by illustrating greeting cards. While here, she saw a newspaper contest seeking a new cartoonist. Ms. Messick sent in her drawings of a character named Brenda Starr, who was a bandit.As The Times wrote in 2005, Ms. Messick was talked into making her a reporter by an aide to Joseph Medill Patterson, the founder and publisher of The Daily News.The Society of Illustrators offered a more nuanced version of the story. Mr. Patterson, it said, “swore he would never publish a woman cartoonist — and went so far as to throw away anything sent in by a woman.” An assistant to Mr. Patterson, Mollie Slott, “pulled Messick’s work out of the trash” and suggested making the character a reporter.“Brenda Starr, Reporter” debuted in June 1940 and was, at one point, syndicated in 250 newspapers. The comic was made into several movies.Ms. Starr’s depictions of journalism was, perhaps, well suited for the funny pages. She once handed a story to “a custodian, who somehow gets it into the next day’s paper,” The Times wrote.But Ms. Starr’s real message was about a hard-charging woman succeeding in a man’s world. At a time when women faced discrimination at almost every turn, Ms. Starr was an inspiring figure.The exhibition is on display until March 23.It’s Thursday — read about someone who doesn’t look like you.Dear Diary:It was 1950. I was 18. So was Rita. We had met in high school. I was attending art school at night at Cooper Union. During the day I was working as an assistant for Maxwell Starr at his private art school on Central Park West in the West 80s.One of his students, Theresa, worked at the ticket window at Radio City Music Hall. Whenever Rita and I wanted to see a show, Theresa let us in free.Rita and I planned to get married, and I decided to propose to her at that majestic place. We went to a show and, afterward, we went downstairs to the lounge and found a quiet corner.I retrieved a ring from my pocket. It was a modest ring. It had belonged to my grandmother, whose family immigrated to America from Poland in the early 1900s. My mother had given it to me for this purpose.I presented the ring to Rita and asked her to marry me. She was thrilled, especially in that glorious setting. Later, we returned to our families’ apartments, a 15-minute walk apart in Borough Park, Brooklyn.Rita went to her mother’s bedroom and found her asleep. She woke her up and excitedly announced the proposal, showing her the ring.“For that you woke me up?” her mother said.— Irving BenderNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article misstated when alternate-side parking was suspended. The next suspension was today, not March 6.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Trip Gabriel and Peter EavisThe decision by Amazon this week to abandon its planned headquarters in New York City tapped into one of the major themes of left-wing Democrats: that giant corporations — and in some cases the billionaires who run them — must be held to account for wage inequality, corporate greed and middle-class stagnation.And some contenders and would-be contenders for the party’s 2020 presidential nomination were quick to take a victory lap over the retailer’s sudden reversal.The economic incentives offered the company amounted to no more than “taxpayer bribes,” said Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, who accused Amazon of holding American democracy “hostage.”.@Amazon – one of the wealthiest companies on the planet – just walked away from billions in taxpayer bribes, all because some elected officials in New York aren't sucking up to them enough. How long will we allow giant corporations to hold our democracy hostage? https://t.co/O9pz7en43BSenator Bernie Sanders of Vermont, who has introduced the “Stop BEZOS Act” to tax companies that he says underpay employees, congratulated New Yorkers “for standing up to the power of Amazon.”Their blunt condemnation of Amazon underscores the extent to which this has become an animating issue for the far left. And their reaction is one act in a broader set of 2020 issues for progressive Democrats that includes the Green New Deal, which proposes far-reaching federal intervention in the economy to tackle climate change, and the determination to rein in leviathan tech companies, whose founders have lost their luster as heroes of a new economy.Candidates and potential candidates perceived as more centrist did not immediately weigh in, reflecting one of the fault lines in a Democratic Party wrestling over who is the best standard-bearer to suit up for a coming titanic struggle with President Trump. Some candidates, like Senators Cory Booker of New Jersey and Kamala Harris of California, have deeper connections to tech companies.The views of centrists may have been channeled by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York, who slammed fellow Democrats for putting “their own narrow political interests above their community.”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]The sudden unraveling of the Amazon deal on Thursday meant the company’s promise of 25,000 jobs in New York City would be unfulfilled over opposition to the city and state’s offer of $3 billion in tax incentives, which highlighted the practice of luring businesses to states and cities with promises of big tax breaks.“There are large questions philosophically about whether taxpayers should give billions of dollars to billionaires,” said Gordon Hintz, the Democratic minority leader of the Wisconsin State Assembly, who is a critic of a state deal in 2017 to lure the electronics giant Foxconn with $4 billion in taxpayer subsidies.“There’s frustration in the public right now where wealth is being concentrated, the opportunities for economic mobility are lower, and they see the people who receive these deals seemingly unconcerned with their reality,” he added.Wisconsin, a battleground state that Mr. Trump narrowly won in 2016 as part of his appeal to white blue-collar voters, is certain to be a crossroads of national Democratic contenders ahead of 2020, as they try to win back some of those voters and excite others who stayed home. That Mr. Trump played a role in the Foxconn deal — and jumped in again recently when the Taiwan-based company wavered — is a ready-made target for Democrats inclined to criticize corporate giveaways.Mr. Hintz said the issue played a role in the re-election loss last year of Gov. Scott Walker, a Republican.Even as New York sent Amazon packing, other cities and regions renewed their courtship of the company. On Thursday, Newark officials sent a courier in red to deliver a giant heart-shaped card to the company bearing the Valentine’s Day message that the city and New Jersey “still love u, Amazon!”[Make sense of the people, issues and ideas shaping American politics with our newsletter.]Mr. Booker, who is seeking the Democratic nomination, has made no comment on the deal. A Democratic county chairman in Iowa, Kurt Meyer, who put Mr. Booker up overnight on a recent swing through the state, predicted that criticisms of large corporations would feature in appeals to the party base there, which is more progressive than in many states. Iowa’s $208 million in incentives for an Apple data center near Des Moines with just 50 jobs was debated in last year’s midterm elections.“I suspect the issue will be exploited extensively in Iowa, due in part to our vague but distinct sense of economic insecurity, which, while unrelated to Amazon and Apple, is pretty dry tinder,” Mr. Meyer said.At a CNN town hall in Iowa last month, Ms. Harris was asked if the existence of multibillionaires was “morally defensible.” She replied that the 2017 Republican tax cut bill was “unconscionable” for giving breaks to corporations and those in the top 1 percent but excluding working families.Amazon’s decision to cancel its deal with New York also comes at a time when prominent Democratic lawmakers in Washington are crafting legislation and advocating policies that could constrain or even break up large technology companies.In the past two years, big scandals in the technology sector have made privacy and the security of social media networks hotly debated issues. Russian entities used Facebook’s network to try and influence the 2016 presidential election. The Cambridge Analytica scandal revealed that Facebook users’ data had been misused.Senator Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat and candidate for president, is sponsoring a bill that would require disclosure about who is paying for online political advertising. Ms. Warren supports antitrust policies. Mr. Sanders’s Stop BEZOS Act, named for the chief executive of Amazon, Jeff Bezos, would tax corporations whose low-wage workers find it necessary to rely on food stamps and government health care benefits.The push to step up regulation may have support among the public. In a Pew Research poll last year, 55 percent of the respondents said technology companies had too much power and influence, compared with 37 percent who said the firms had the right amount.But not every party official believes in shaming corporate chieftains and corporations.In northeast Ohio, Representative Tim Ryan, a Democrat whose district recently lost 1,600 jobs with the shutdown of a plant making the Chevrolet Cruze, wrote a letter on Friday imploring Amazon to build a second headquarters there.Mr. Ryan, in an interview, predicted that everyone at the basketball game he planned to attend Friday night at Howland High School, where his daughter is a cheerleader, would be talking about how to lure Amazon and its jobs to the area.Ohio is a swing state that Democrats, including Senator Sherrod Brown, who is weighing a presidential bid, would like to win back in 2020.“It doesn’t serve us well to be hostile to business in general,” Mr. Ryan said. “We need them. We can’t reverse climate change. We can’t rebuild manufacturing. We can’t retool work force development without a partnership with the free enterprise system.”OpinionAmy LiuAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byHistory is clear: A city that rejects economic opportunity will lose its status as the center of the business world.By Kenneth T. JacksonProfessor Jackson is a historian at Columbia University.On Nov. 13, 2018, Amazon announced that New York would become one of two locations for the company’s second North American headquarters, ending a competition that had involved more than 200 places, including cities as diverse as Chicago, Atlanta, Denver, Newark and Austin, Tex. But there was hardly any cheering in New York. State Senator Michael Gianaris and other leaders protested that the agreement was bad for New York and bad for its people. They argued that it is absurd for city and state taxpayers to subsidize one of the world’s most valuable companies, owned by the world’s richest man, with as much as $3 billion in taxpayer money.They are right about one thing. It is absurd that any city would agree to such a deal. But this is how the game is played. Paying companies to relocate has been the American way since 1936, when Mississippi established the nation’s first state-sponsored economic development plan. Under that plan, since followed by many other jurisdictions, cities and states agreed to pay companies to relocate by promising them new factories and low or nonexistent taxes. With those inducements, numerous businesses relocated in the decades after World War II, usually from the union-dominated Northeast and Midwest to the business-friendly South. In this historical context, New York’s deal for Amazon is not a bad deal at all. But its opponents have condemned it, partly because the negotiations were held in secret and because the constituents most involved in the decision were not consulted. Absent serious renegotiations, they want Amazon to take its promise of 25,000 new jobs somewhere else. The greatest city in the world, they say, need not kneel before capitalist royalty.Can the Empire City really afford to turn away from this opportunity? Clearly, New York has overcome dozens of economic crises in its nearly four centuries of history. It was almost destroyed by fire in 1776 and 1778, and in 1835, the Great Fire of New York destroyed more than 600 structures and most of what is now Lower Manhattan. The 1863 Draft Riot took at least 100 lives and continues to rank as the worst civil disturbance in American history. The 1977 blackout resulted in widespread looting and property destruction — the low point in a dark period. And the worst of all, in terms of the loss of human life, was the attack on the World Trade Center in 2001, which killed 2,753 people. The attack also destroyed more than 10 million square feet of real estate, and the resulting crisis cost the region 223,000 jobs in just two years.The potential loss of the Amazon headquarters would be more akin to a long-term disaster. During the 20th century, the city lost its two main economic underpinnings: its manufacturing base and its role as the busiest seaport on earth. In 1955, for example, about a million people worked in New York City’s factories, and in its crowded harbor, tramp steamers, ocean liners and tugboats struggled to avoid one another. New York was the leading industrial city in the world.And yet, by 1980, a quarter-century later, the major job centers in the five boroughs had essentially collapsed. In 1900, New York had 90 breweries and was the beer capital of the nation. But by 1976, the last brewery in the city was gone, and Milwaukee and St. Louis were competing for beer supremacy. Similarly, in 1950, New York’s 300,000 textile workers made most of the women’s clothes sold in the United States. The city had no serious rival. But by 2017, only about 20,000 such workers remained. New York’s job losses were not only blue-collar. During the 1970s, the city experienced an exodus of Fortune 500 corporations. Dozens of them moved their headquarters and took their executives with them. Some went to suburbs in Connecticut and New Jersey, but many more decamped for Atlanta, Dallas or Houston. The impact on the city was dramatic. Not only did workers laid off from those companies lose their jobs, but their spouses and children suffered as well. Many of them, as demographic statistics reveal, had to move to other states to make a living. Their departure was hidden by the fact that they were often replaced by millions of newcomers from other countries, but those immigrants could not immediately compensate for all those lost jobs.The region now faces a calamity almost as bad as anything that has happened in the past. The loss of Amazon would cost 25,000 jobs directly, and those workers would support up to 82,000 more indirect jobs. The subsidies New York has offered to Amazon would have been given to any company promising so many jobs. And Amazon is expected to pay more than $27 billion in taxes over the next 25 years. Amazon will also build four million square feet of office space in Queens, providing billions more in construction spending. More important, a new Amazon headquarters on the East River would signal that the future of this metropolis is as great as its past.If Mr. Gianaris and his supporters have their way, and Amazon retreats to Nashville or Atlanta or some other more welcoming city, the mail order house that Jeff Bezos built will probably suffer little. But New York will lose its reputation as a center of economic opportunity, and the city will sink in status and importance. And its legislators and politicians will solidify their reputation as the most overpaid and incompetent in the nation.Amazon’s opponents should take a longer-term view. If there is no economic opportunity, there are no jobs. If there are no jobs, there is no tax revenue. And without taxes, jobs and opportunity, New York will no longer be first among cities. Kenneth T. Jackson is a professor of history at Columbia University and the editor in chief of The Encyclopedia of New York City.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Another attempt in Parliament to control the Brexit process, a special look at Indian elections and a global search for “Salvator Mundi.” Here’s the latest:Late Monday in Britain, lawmakers will try again to come up with an alternative to Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan, which they have now rejected three times.Chances of success appear minimal. None of the eight options that were on the table last week managed to fetch a majority in Parliament, and fewer are likely to be considered in this round.Failure would leave the country with two unappealing options: leave the E.U. in a little over a week without a deal or delay Brexit further.Analysis: “In interviews, many Britons expressed despair over the inability of the political system to produce a compromise,” our London correspondents Ellen Barry and Benjamin Mueller write. “No one feels that the government has represented their interests. No one is satisfied. No one is hopeful.“It has amounted to a hollowing out of confidence in democracy itself.”The winners: One industry that seems to be booming amid the Brexit chaos: law firms dealing with client concerns about the legal ramifications of the divorce with the E.U. The president, emboldened by his attorney general’s public characterization of the Mueller report, has threatened to close off parts of the U.S. border with Mexico this week. He also ordered the State Department to cut off aid to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, saying the three countries were not doing enough to stop migrants from pushing north.In recent weeks, Border Patrol facilities have been strained by an influx of migrants — the largest annual surge in years — ahead of the arrival of the deadly summer heat.Impact: Sealing the border would effectively close off the U.S. from one of its largest trading partners, and could leave American citizens who travel back and forth stuck in limbo.Conditions: Processing stations across the 1,900-mile border with Mexico were not expanded despite projections of the influx, and makeshift additions have been overwhelmed.One camp under a bridge in El Paso, Tex., which one volunteer described as resembling a “concentration camp,” was cleared out following an outcry over conditions there.In the aftermath of the live-streamed massacre in Christchurch, New Zealand, lawmakers in both countries are considering sweeping new policies that would restrict the kind of content permitted on social media platforms.If the two countries move ahead, their regulations could serve as models for the rest of the world amid growing frustration and anger with Silicon Valley giants.But the efforts walk a fine line between intervention and censorship. For established democracies that cherish free speech, China’s sophisticated system of suppressing online content could be seen as a cautionary tale.Over the weekend: Social media companies are themselves beginning to converge around the need for new rules. Mark Zuckerberg invited Congress to regulate Facebook and other social media networks in an opinion piece for The Washington Post. He suggested they focus on harmful content, election integrity, privacy and data portability.With around 900 million voters, almost 2,000 registered parties and five weeks of voting, the Indian elections can seem cacophonous. Even for your briefing writer, a diaspora Indian, they’re difficult to follow. The country’s myriad states, cultures and socioeconomic segments can’t be sliced into left or right, red or blue. It’s a kaleidoscope, and each prism illuminates a different aspect of the political spectrum.But it is also heartening to watch this young democracy exercising a right denied to many in the surrounding region. And it is important: What happens in India can end up shifting the global economy and geopolitical landscape.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his right-wing Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party are seeking to retain power, facing a surging challenge by the opposition Congress Party. The briefing will be regularly unpacking aspects of the race. Voting unfolds from from April 11 until May 19 and results are announced on May 23.For now, keep in mind that the backdrop for the campaigning is a flammable mix of economic, religious and national security issues. Unemployment is high, sectarian violence has risen, farmers across the country are increasingly frustrated and there’s a broad disillusionment with politicians.Send us your feedback and any questions you have about the elections here.Taiwan: Two Chinese fighter jets crossed the self-ruled island’s maritime border, a move Taiwanese officials condemned as “provocative,” saying it “seriously impacted regional safety and stability.”Jeff Bezos: The Amazon founder’s security consultant accused the Saudi government of hacking Mr. Bezos’ phone, motivated by the aggressive coverage in The Washington Post, which Mr. Bezos also owns, of the murder of Jamal Khashoggi. The consultant provided no evidence but said he had turned his findings over to law enforcement.Boeing 737: Black box data from the doomed Ethiopian Airlines flight suggests that a faulty sensor that erroneously activated an automated stabilizing system on the jet caused the crash, a sequence also suspected in the crash of a Lion Air flight in October.Joe Biden: The former vice president, accused of touching and kissing a Nevada candidate just before appearing in support of her political campaign in 2014, released a statement saying he didn’t believe he acted inappropriately but admitted to making “expressions of affection” on the campaign trail. He is expected to announce whether he will run for president soon.Arctic drilling: A U.S. federal judge ruled that President Trump’s executive order to lift an Obama-era ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean was unlawful, keeping the drilling ban in “full force” and hindering Mr. Trump’s efforts to undo his predecessor’s environmental legacy.North Korea: The country said that a mysterious raid of its embassy in Madrid last month, led by a Mexican man who lives in the U.S., was a “grave terrorist attack” and a “flagrant violation of international law.”Afghanistan: The country’s vice president, Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, survived the latest in a series of Taliban attacks. The insurgent group’s list of grievances against the former warlord leads with the deaths of thousands of Taliban prisoners who surrendered to his forces in late 2001, many of whom suffocated in sealed trucks en route to prison.“Salvator Mundi”: The location of the famed painting attributed to Leonardo da Vinci has been a mystery since last year, shortly after a Saudi royal, most likely the crown prince, paid $450 million for it.The Kardashians: For more than a decade, the family has turned its feuding on reality TV into business opportunities. “People don’t know how much work goes into it,” the family matriarch, Kris Jenner, said in an interview with The Times.111 years young: Two British men, Alfred Smith and Bob Weighton, have lived through two world wars, more than 20 prime ministers and the entire rule of Queen Elizabeth II. Their advice for longevity? “Avoid dying,” and “porridge is helpful.”Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Alison Roman’s spicy noodle soup with mushrooms and herbs is a deeply flavored vegetarian dinner.Time management can only get you so far. The true key to productivity, according to Adam Grant, a Wharton School expert, is attention management.Hostels are the best way to travel cheaply all over the world.The Bauhaus art school celebrates the centennial of its founding today.The Modernist school (whose name comes from the German for “house building”) was among the first to combine the teaching of crafts, design, architecture and fine art.Walter Gropius, the architect who established the school in 1919 in Weimar, Germany, wrote in the Bauhaus’s program that the ultimate aim was the “unified work of art.”And he enlisted masters of various artistic disciplines, such as Wassily Kandinsky, Laszlo Moholy-Nagy and Paul Klee, to join the Bauhaus faculty.The school survived for little more than a decade before it was shut down in 1933 under pressure from the Nazis.But its legacy of uniting art and functional design in everyday life is long-lasting, and Bauhaus principles were spread worldwide.Anna Schaverien, from our London newsroom, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Tuesday.Weather: Sunny skies. The temperatures will get into the mid-40s, but the windchill may have you reaching for a scarf.Alternate-side parking: In effect until March 21 (Purim).The real estate mogul Harry Macklowe erected 42-foot-tall photographs of himself and his new wife on a Park Avenue building last week for the whole world — including his ex-wife, who lives nearby — to see.It was the latest example of how New York has been uniquely shaped by the idiosyncrasies of the superrich.Sometimes the results, like vanity addresses on buildings, are seemingly harmless. Other times, they have changed how New York looks and feels.Here are a few other instances:Stephen A. Schwarzman’s libraryIn 2008, the Wall Street financier Stephen A. Schwarzman donated $100 million to the New York Public Library on Fifth Avenue, resulting in his name’s being inscribed on the building five times. Soon it will be six.Robert Moses’ two-mile detourThe Northern State Parkway on Long Island bypasses the neighborhood of Wheatley Hills because, according to the historian Robert Caro, very rich residents persuaded the master builder Robert Moses to redesign his roadway plans.Barry Diller’s parkInitially, the plan for a new park on the West Side of Manhattan was modest, and the billionaire Barry Diller was tapped to help fund it. “He embraced the notion, but brought in his own experts and commissioned a space age structure,” The New York Times reported in 2017.Before Mr. Diller got involved, the park was projected to cost $35 million; its budget has since ballooned to $250 million. Jeff Bezos’ planned helipadWhen Amazon was looking to open a major campus, Governor Cuomo and Mayor de Blasio lured it with nearly $3 billion in tax incentives and waterfront property in Long Island City. “They even agreed to allow a helipad for Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive,” The Times’s J. David Goodman reported last year. (Could you imagine him taking the 7 train?)The company eventually backed out of the whole deal because of local opposition.Donald J. Trump’s propertiesOf course, this list wouldn’t be complete without mentioning Donald J. Trump, whose eponymous developments proliferated throughout New York City for decades before he became president. Even Wollman Rink in Central Park has the Trump name on it.Since the 2016 election, there has been a push to strip his name from some buildings and even a state park.Know of any other examples? Email us at nytoday@nytimes.com.  A glittering goodbye to Hector Xtravaganza. New Yorkers gathered to memorialize the life of the L.G.B.T. icon.Black lawmakers in New York say they’ll block marijuana legalization unless their communities benefit from what could be a $3 billion industry.State lawmakers are backing a pied-à-terre tax on multimillion-dollar second homes in New York. They say it will help fund the city’s ailing subway system.A shipping manifest said the container held dried fruit. Inside was 3,200 pounds of cocaine.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.There were 48 fire deaths in New York City in 2016. In 2018, the figure was 88. [New York Post]More schools will provide meatless lunches. [NY1]A black neighborhood on Long Island defied the odds and won disaster aid. [WNYC]Ambush Comedy, a stand-up show at Two Boots in Williamsburg. Arrive between 8 and 8:30 p.m. to grab a free beer and maybe a slice of pizza. [Free]Join writers, performers and comedians in choosing queer icons at the “Hail Mary: Our Queer Saints” show at the Footlight Bar in Ridgewood. 7 p.m. [$5]Learn the basics of watercoloring at a workshop for beginners at the South Beach Library in Staten Island. 5 p.m. [Free]A talk on the “Frida Kahlo: Appearances Can Be Deceiving” exhibit at the Brooklyn Museum. 3 p.m. [Free with $20 admission to the exhibition]— Derek Norman Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.It’s hard to overstate the revolutionary impact that bicycles have had on mankind.Paved roads were made for cyclists, not drivers, one author has argued.The Times’s Natalie Angier wrote, “Bicycles also gave birth to our national highway system.” And Ms. Angier also noted that suffragist Susan B. Anthony said, “I think it has done more to emancipate women than any one thing in the world.”There are, of course, more recent examples of the impact of bicycles.In 2008, an East Harlem resident, Dulcie Canton, had not just one but half a dozen jobs: dog-walking, cat-sitting, fine-arts modeling, coffee shop barista, just to name a few. And she biked to each of them. Why? “I was struggling to make MetroCard money,” she said in a recent interview.“I thought of cycling as a way to save money, going to my gigs,” Ms. Canton said. Besides, she added, “mass transit is crazy.”So, she hopped on her bike and rode. Later, Ms. Canton connected with other female cyclists of color through groups like Black Girls Do Bike and Brown Bike Girl. “I felt like I found my family,” she said.Ms. Canton now works as the Brooklyn organizer for Transportation Alternatives, an advocacy group that promotes bicycle and pedestrian-friendly policies.The “first human-powered two-wheeled machines,” debuted in New York in 1819, according to a news release from the Museum of the City of New York. Those machines did not have pedals, and riders mainly coasted. Those machines were called velocipedes.Bicycles have evolved a lot since then.On Thursday, the museum will open the exhibit “Cycling in the City: A 200-Year History.” It will explore the history and cultures of cycling, as well as the machines themselves. The exhibit includes 150 objects, 14 bicycles and three stationary bicycles.The exhibit runs (or rides!) through Oct. 6.It’s Tuesday — make your own path.Dear Diary:I was stepping up to order at Planet Smoothie in Penn Station when a man who had just gotten a smoothie stomped back to the counter.“What’s in this?” he said.The cashier looked nonplused.“Which one did you order, again?” he said.The man waved at the board on the wall. The cashier continued to have a nervous look on his face.“It looks like strawberries, blueberries, nonfat yogurt,” he said.“I can read,” the man said. “But it doesn’t taste like it.”The people waiting behind me began to shuffle impatiently. The cashier shrugged and shifted his feet. Two other employees moved in closer. I started contemplating whether a smoothie was worth waiting out this scene for.“I can make you another one if you like?” the cashier said.There was a pause.“Nope, that’s all right, it’s good, ” the man said. “I like it, and I was just hoping for the recipe to make it at home.”— Janine YoongNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of the Mexican artist who is the topic of a talk and exhibit at the Brooklyn Museum. She is Frida Kahlo, not Khalo.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersSAN FRANCISCO/BEIJING/HONG KONG — Amazon.com Inc said it will shut its China online store by July 18, as the U.S. e-commerce giant focuses on the lucrative businesses of selling overseas goods and cloud services in the world's most populous nation.The move underscores how entrenched, home-grown e-commerce rivals have made it difficult for Amazon's marketplace to gain traction in China. Consumer research firm iResearch Global said Alibaba Group Holding's Tmall marketplace and JD.com controlled 82 percent of the Chinese e-commerce market last year.An Amazon spokeswoman told Reuters on Thursday that it is notifying sellers that it will no longer operate a marketplace, nor provide seller services on Amazon.cn.Sources familiar with its plans had told Reuters a day before that the company had planned to make such a move. ""We are working closely with our sellers to ensure a smooth transition and to continue to deliver the best customer experience possible,"" the spokeswoman said in a statement.""Sellers interested in continuing to sell on Amazon outside of China are able to do so through Amazon Global Selling.""The sources said that Amazon shoppers in China will no longer be able to buy goods from third-party merchants in the country, but they still will be able to order from the United States, Britain, Germany and Japan via the firm's global store. Amazon will wind down support for domestic-selling merchants in China in the next 90 days and review the impact on its fulfilment centers in the country, some of which it may close, one of the people said.""They're pulling out because it's not profitable and not growing,"" said analyst Michael Pachter at Wedbush Securities.Ker Zheng, marketing specialist at Shenzhen-based e-commerce consultancy Azoya, said Amazon had no major competitive advantage in China over its domestic rivals. Unless someone is searching for a very specific imported good that can't be found elsewhere, ""there's no reason for a consumer to pick Amazon because they're not going to be able to ship things as fast as Tmall or JD,"" he said.The Amazon spokeswoman said that the company would continue to invest and grow in China through its Amazon Global Store, Global Selling, Kindle e-readers and online content. Amazon Web Services, the company's cloud computing unit that sells data storage and computing power to enterprises, will also remain.U.S.-listed shares of Alibaba and JD.com rose 1 percent on Wednesday after Reuters first reported the move, before paring gains later in the day. Amazon's shares closed flat.E-COMMERCE SLOWDOWNThe withdrawal of the world's largest online retailer - founded by Jeff Bezos, who later became the world's richest person - comes amid a broader e-commerce slowdown in China. Alibaba in January reported its slowest quarterly earnings growth since 2016, while JD.com is responding to the changing business environment with staff cuts.It also follows the Chinese e-commerce retreat of other big-name Western retailers. Walmart Inc sold its Chinese online shopping platform to JD.com in 2016 in return for a stake in JD.com to focus on its bricks-and-mortar stores. Similarly, the country appears to factor less in the global aspirations of fellow U.S. tech majors Netflix Inc, Facebook Inc and Alphabet Inc's Google, Wedbush Securities' Pachter said.Amazon bought Chinese online shopping website Joyo.com in 2004 for $75 million, rebranding the business in 2011 as Amazon China. But in a sign of Tmall's dominance, Amazon opened an online store on the Alibaba site in 2015.Amazon is still expanding aggressively in other countries, notably India, where it is contending with local rival Flipkart. (Reporting by Jeffrey Dastin in SAN FRANCISCO, Cate Cadell and Pei Li in BEIJING, Kane Wu in HONG KONG and Josh Horwitz and Brenda Goh in SHANGHAI; Editing by Susan Thomas, Christopher Cushing and Muralikumar Anantharaman)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kaly SotoWelcome to the weekend. Well deserved after a busy news week! Virginia politics are a mess. El Chapo’s jury is still deliberating. And Jeff Bezos took on The National Enquirer. But today, there are plans to be kept and kitchens to clean. Here are some of the stories you may have missed this busy week.Men in Japan do fewer hours of housework and child care than in any of the world’s richest nations. That keeps women from getting better jobs and holds back the economy.____As the former Texas congressman weighs a run for president, his rebel-in-moderation youth offers revealing parallels to his search for direction now.____Blackface, with its roots in demeaning minstrel-show traditions, has persisted in fraternity houses and private clubs, occasionally exploding into public view.[Also read: “When Is Sorry Not Enough? Virginia Scandals Test the Limits of Forgiveness”]____These women want the right to compete in big-wave contests — and get paid as much as men do.____The National Western Stock Show in Denver bills itself as the premier livestock and rodeo gathering in the country. Every January, thousands of agricultural families come together for the 16-day celebration.____A bipartisan consensus has taken hold: After prison, nonviolent offenders should get a second chance at normal lives. But what about someone whose criminal history — and ambitions — are more extreme?____The durable R&B-turned-movie star built her legend on the pursuit of enlightenment. It’s taken her to hostile territory.____A retired actor found what he thought was an ideal place to live in Greenwich Village in 1955, for $90 a month. He never left.____Some conservationists and travel experts are worried about the environmental impact of a growing number of visitors on the fragile, otherworldly archipelago.____Winsomely captured in poems and song, the birds are yielding new secrets about their astounding beaks and penchant for violence.____Boredom teaches us that life isn’t a parade of amusements. More important, it spawns creativity and self-sufficiency.____Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy William Neuman and J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Ever since Amazon decided to withdraw its plans to build a corporate campus in New York City, Mayor Bill de Blasio has been in attack mode.He criticized Amazon for abandoning New York, characterizing its decision as an example of “the 1 percent dictating to everyone else.” He ridiculed the company for not having the patience to work through community opposition, suggesting on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that it showed the maturity of someone who “took their ball and went home.”The comments represented an abrupt shift for the mayor, who had helped entice the company to come to Queens, and had recently met in Albany with Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to strategize how they might help push aside the political hurdles that stood in the company’s way.Three days after that meeting, Mr. de Blasio got the phone call from an Amazon executive, informing him of the company’s decision.“It was such a shock to the system,” the mayor said in an interview on Wednesday. “I wanted to believe there was something more to it, that there was more room for dialogue, that there was something they wanted to address, that it wasn’t literally: We’re out and never coming back.”Within minutes of hanging up the telephone with the Amazon executive, Jay Carney, Mr. de Blasio decided to turn against the company; he said that he and his aides “immediately reached a broad and fast consensus that this was outrageous.”For Mr. de Blasio, the aggressive posture toward Amazon, a company that has been criticized by the left for its opposition toward unions and its cooperation with federal law enforcement officials, may be a calculated political risk worth taking.He has suggested that he is considering running for president in 2020, and taking a highly visible stand against a big corporation and its phenomenally wealthy chief executive, Jeff Bezos, could score points with the energized Democratic activists on the left who are likely to vote in primaries.It gives him a platform to discuss corporate behavior and income inequality, one of his core progressive issues. It provides an avenue for Mr. de Blasio to position himself on the campaign trail — he is traveling to Iowa this weekend — as a mayor who stood up to Amazon, even if he once stood alongside them.And it allowed Mr. de Blasio an opening to regain some of the ground he had ceded with his party’s left wing, many of whose leaders in New York, including Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, opposed the Amazon deal.How well it will work for him remains an open question.“It seems that he’s a little bit torn on who he wants to be,” said Jose Cabrera of the Queens branch of the Democratic Socialists of America, a political group that organized against Amazon, including door-to-door efforts to rally opposition.Mr. Cabrera said the mayor’s office did not reach out to D.S.A. members or other local activist groups that gained experience and contacts during the campaign for Ms. Ocasio-Cortez. As for the mayor’s rhetoric now, Mr. Cabrera said it rang hollow. “I don’t think he has much to do at this point,” he added.The mayor was more receptive to concerns raised by prominent union opponents of the deal.The mayor spoke several times with Stuart Appelbaum, the president of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, who was one of the more vocal opponents of Amazon coming to Queens. The two held a meeting at Gracie Mansion in late January, and spoke again on Super Bowl Sunday, Mr. Appelbaum recalled.“I think that we were able to inform him of Amazon’s behavior in the workplace, and the mistreatment of its workers all over the world,” Mr. Appelbaum said.“I think he made a mistake in the way the deal was put together, I think he was wrong in believing that Amazon would behave rationally in this process.”The union leader said he believed the mayor “changed over time,” eventually agreeing that the city “needed to find a way to deal with these labor issues.”Mr. de Blasio disputed any notion that the conversations caused him to alter his approach, which he laid out on the day last year that he announced Amazon would be coming to New York City. The city — a union town, the mayor said — would eventually change the corporate behemoth.“When Stuart suggests evolution it misses the fact that I think I felt all that at the beginning,” Mr. de Blasio said on Wednesday.Mr. de Blasio has said repeatedly in recent weeks that he is not ruling out a run for the White House, and his pivot on Amazon comes at a convenient time for someone who might be contemplating facing Democratic primary voters who lean leftward.“I knew there would be some of my fellow progressives who for other reasons might not have liked the deal,” the mayor added. “But the progressive movement isn’t a monolith, certainly the Democratic Party isn’t anything like a monolith. It never surprises me when there’s differences among my friends. But I felt very comfortable that the net gain for working people was really clear, was unusually clear.”“If I had wanted to run away I could have obviously done that,” he added, insisting he was never less than gung-ho in his support for the deal. “I believed it was a good deal, I spoke to it many many times.”The mayor said that his switch from Amazon-booster to Amazon-basher was actually part of a consistent stance toward big business. “It’s important to understand that I’m very comfortable in my own skin,” Mr. de Blasio said. “I have been a self-identified progressive since high school and I know that in all dealing with corporate America you have to take a position of demanding guarantees for working people.”The Amazon deal and Mr. de Blasio’s possible presidential aspirations came up at a news conference earlier this week, which also happened to fall on the day that Bernie Sanders announced that he would again seek the Democratic nomination for president.Although Mr. de Blasio did not endorse Mr. Sanders for the Democratic nomination in 2016, he was and remains a fervent admirer. Yet when he was asked if he would campaign for Mr. Sanders this time around, his answer hinted at his own presidential intentions.“I’ve been really, really clear; I’ll be clear again,” Mr. de Blasio said. “I do not rule out any particular path for myself.”Indeed, the mayor will appear this weekend in Sioux City, Iowa, on Saturday and on Sunday in Des Moines, where he is speaking to the Asian & Latino Coalition — a day after Senator Kamala Harris of California is slated to appear before the group.Prakash Kopparapu, the chairman of the coalition, said the mayor of New York City had “rock star” status, even if Mr. de Blasio was not yet “part of the conversation” for 2020.“He is not part of the talk, at least not in the circles that I’m in,” he added.Through the whole process of dealing with Amazon officials, the mayor did not meet, or even speak to, the Amazon chief executive. Mr. Bezos did not visit the site in Long Island City, or come to New York at any point as part of the process.Yet less than a week after Amazon pulled out, Mr. Bezos visited New York on Wednesday to speak before an aviation club in Midtown Manhattan. He spoke for about an hour, mostly about space travel, took no questions from the audience, and, according to two people who attended the closed-door event, never once mentioned Amazon’s failed attempt to build a campus in New York.Then he left, ignoring questions outside from reporters.Ana Fota contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — Amazon may dominate online shopping in the United States, but in the world’s second-largest economy it is all but calling it quits.Amazon said late Wednesday that it was closing its domestic e-commerce business in China. The company had long struggled to gain traction in China despite operating there for more than a decade.Instead of buying products sold locally by Amazon and its marketplace of Chinese suppliers, shoppers at Amazon.cn will be able to buy only some products imported by Amazon’s sites in the United States, Britain, Germany or Japan.Amazon’s Chinese sales are small enough that the company does not break them out in its financial reports. It sells less in the country than in Japan, the smallest market that it does report, which had $13.8 billion in sales last year, about 6 percent of Amazon’s business globally.“Over the past few years, we have been evolving our China online retail business to increasingly emphasize cross-border sales, and in return we’ve seen very strong response from Chinese customers,” Amazon said in a statement. “Their demand for high-quality, authentic goods from around the world continues to grow rapidly, and given our global presence, Amazon is well-positioned to serve them.”Amazon bought its way into China in 2004 with a takeover of Joyo.com, a popular online seller of books, for about $75 million. “We’re happy to be part of one of the world’s most dynamic markets,” Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, said in a statement at the time.It rebranded the Joyo business in 2011 to Amazon China.Amazon faced fewer restrictions when it entered China than foreign internet companies face today. But the company struggled to compete with a cast of cutthroat local competitors. It also didn’t adapt well to the unique Chinese market, which is price-sensitive for many goods and favors near instant delivery and a focus on authentic foreign products.Amazon initially controlled much of its own inventory and built its own delivery infrastructure. By contrast, Alibaba, the Chinese e-commerce retailer, chose to focus on being a platform that hosted an array of smaller vendors and made use of local delivery companies to help it offer lower prices. Over time the approach helped Alibaba eclipse Amazon.Other local players that more closely followed Amazon’s model, like JD.com, invested more heavily in logistics and outcompeted the American company, which some argued was distracted by its presence in markets across the world.In recent years, Amazon has focused more on offering cloud services and its Kindle devices instead of its core e-commerce business in China. Those have struggled under the onus of Beijing’s control.“There is no other region that has such a dominant competitor and regulatory environment,” said Simeon Siegel, a retail analyst at Instinet, an equity research firm. “You have to wonder if Amazon gave up on China earlier than this announcement,” he said, given how Amazon barely talks about its Chinese business as opposed to other growing economies like India.Some brands and retailers, like Starbucks or Nike, have found success in China, which has become one of their most important markets. “Nike as a brand may drive more revenue in China than Amazon does,” Mr. Siegel said.Amazon’s chief rival in the United States, Walmart, has been expanding its business in China, particularly through a partnership with JD.com.Walmart and its Sam’s Club unit sell on JD.com’s e-commerce sites, giving the American retailer vast access to Chinese consumers. The two companies have also taken steps to integrate their inventories so that the companies can more quickly deliver products to customers shopping on JD.com.Walmart also operates hundreds of brick-and-mortar stores across China. The company recently opened a “smart supermarket” that can offer home delivery in less than an hour.Chinese consumers will still be able to buy content like books for Kindles at Amazon.cn, and the company said it would continue other businesses in China, including cloud computing and the services it provides a growing number of Chinese brands that sell directly to Amazon consumers in the United States and elsewhere.Paul Mozur and Michael Corkery contributed reporting from New York.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Tiffany HsuAmazon has removed the online listings for two books that claim to contain cures for autism, a move that follows recent efforts by several social media sites to limit the availability of anti-vaccination and other pseudoscientific material.The books, “Healing the Symptoms Known as Autism” and “Fight Autism and Win,” which had previously been listed for sale in Amazon’s marketplace, were not available on Wednesday. The company confirmed that the listings had been removed, but declined to discuss why or whether similar books would be taken down in the future.Several such books were still listed on Wednesday. In an article published this week, Wired UK magazine noted that Amazon is crowded with titles promoting unproven treatments for autism that include “sex, yoga, camel milk, electroconvulsive therapy and veganism.”There is no cure for autism spectrum disorder, but there are medications that can help address associated symptoms like high energy levels and depression, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The agency has found that as many as a third of parents with an autistic child have tried treatments that most pediatricians do not recommend, and that up to 10 percent may be using potentially dangerous tactics.The books that were listed on Amazon were both written more than five years ago and have together generated more than 600 customer reviews.“Healing the Symptoms Known as Autism” recommends that autistic children drink and bathe in chlorine dioxide, a compound often referred to as “Miracle Mineral Solution.” In 2010, the Food and Drug Administration  described it as “a potent bleach used for stripping textiles and industrial water treatment” that “can cause nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and symptoms of severe dehydration.”Representative Adam Schiff, Democrat of California, wrote an open letter this month to Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, chiding the company about the failure of its algorithms to “distinguish quality information from misinformation or misleading information.”“As a result, harmful anti-vaccine messages have been able to thrive and spread,” Mr. Schiff wrote. “Every online platform, including Amazon, must act responsibly and ensure that they do not contribute to this growing public health catastrophe.”In a letter to Mr. Schiff on Monday, Amazon’s vice president of public policy, Brian Huseman, said the company’s guidelines “do not specifically address content about vaccines.” Mr. Huseman said Amazon provided customers “with access to a variety of viewpoints, including books and videos that some customers may find objectionable.”Mr. Huseman also said in the letter that Amazon had conducted a review of anti-vaccination books and “found categorizations that were not consistent with our customers’ expectations.” The company, he said, was “actively working to resolve this.”A “small number” of publishers and authors have bought ads to promote books about vaccination, Mr. Huseman wrote, noting that Amazon prohibited “general advertising related to public policy or advocacy issues such as anti-vaccination messaging.”Several other internet companies have said they were taking steps to limit the reach of pseudoscientific health information.Facebook said last week that it would not take down misinformation about vaccines, but would try to make such material harder to find and would stop accepting advertisements that advanced vaccine hoaxes. Many anti-vaccination activists believe vaccines are linked to autism, even though the idea has been widely debunked.Pinterest recently began blocking posts about vaccines from appearing in its search bar. And YouTube said it was adjusting its algorithms to raise the visibility of authoritative videos about vaccination-related topics.Follow Tiffany Hsu on Twitter: @tiffkhsu.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bylettersReaders are split over Amazon’s change of plan for its HQ2.To the Editor:Re “Amazon Pulls Out of Planned New York City Headquarters” (nytimes.com, Feb. 14):Amazon doesn’t like democracy. When people start asking tough questions, it can’t take the heat.In 2017, Amazon paid $0 in federal income taxes. Jeff Bezos is the richest man on the planet. This is not a company that needs several billion of our tax dollars as a bribe. Amazon projected that it would employ more than 25,000 people in its so-called HQ2. Google plans to expand to some 20,000 employees in New York City without a public subsidy.Opponents of the project were asking questions that Amazon didn’t like answering. Is it wrong to ask this giant company if it planned to fight unionization? Or to ask why the City Council was cut out of the planning process? These are reasonable questions. Amazon was intent on being the master — but New Yorkers have a different idea about the future of our city.Peter HognessBrooklynTo the Editor:It was sensible to give Amazon large tax breaks in exchange for its huge investment. Thousands of quality jobs would have been created, thereby generating fresh tax revenues in perpetuity. And successful investments tend to attract more investments. Conversely, anti-development policies reap what they sow. New York City will lose much more than just Amazon for years to come. A relatively small gaggle of entitled citizens, unions and servile politicians shouldn’t have been able to destroy this precious opportunity. Jeff HermanStockbridge, Mass.To the Editor:“New York Needs Amazon,” by Kenneth Jackson (Op-Ed, Feb. 14), states that New York’s “reputation as a center of economic opportunity” would “sink” if we rejected Amazon.New York City’s reputation lies in its people, architecture, art, food, culture and music. It’s a true city for all, with Queens being the most diverse part, where middle- and working-class people can still afford to live. Amazon would have changed that, for the worse.We need to look to Seattle to see what would have happened here. Many of the well-paying Amazon jobs in its first headquarters went to people who moved there. The rapid influx of high earners caused increased housing costs, higher rents for small businesses and transportation gridlock.Amazon coming into Queens would have set off a chain reaction of displacement throughout the borough. This is exactly the reason we protested Amazon and are happy it is not coming here!Doreen DeignanSunnyside, QueensTo the Editor:It is unfortunate that Kenneth Jackson’s attempt to bring facts, reason and historical context to the debate over Amazon’s planned move to New York City did not affect the outcome. He mentioned the historical losses in jobs and tax revenues from the disappearance of breweries and the decline of manufacturing, to which I would add the longstanding concern over volatility in the city’s financial services sector.For years, New York City officials have struggled with our overreliance on this sector for jobs and taxes, and the critical need to diversify our economy. Amazon’s initial decision to come to the city was a huge diversification opportunity, and we let it slip away. By allowing the debate to be driven by the short-term thinking of vocal oppositionists, we have signaled to Amazon that it is not welcome here. The loss is ours.Thomas SchickBrooklynThe writer is a retired executive vice president at American Express.To the Editor:In explaining why it is canceling plans to build a corporate campus in Queens, Amazon says that “a number of state and local politicians have made it clear that they oppose our presence.”No, they don’t. They oppose giving $3 billion in tax breaks for 25,000 jobs. That’s more than a hundred thousand dollars per job, an amount that’s difficult to justify during a period of very low unemployment.Shaun BreidbartPelham, N.Y.To the Editor:Now that Amazon has decided not to build in Long Island City, there are very different possible reactions: Regret that our local politicians and union leaders were so negative and refused to encourage the bright side of this potential deal, or joy that after one-sided negotiations, this behemoth of a company is taking its business elsewhere.The third possible reaction is sadness that they couldn’t find common ground to encourage a reasonable compromise between Amazon and the Long Island City community that would be its new home.Ultimately, New York City is the real loser.Peter SamtonNew YorkThe writer is an architect.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kirk JohnsonSEATTLE — As cars and pedestrians passed by during the evening rush on Thursday, Paula Harper-Christensen, a retired teacher, smiled and waved her sign with an upside-down Starbucks mermaid. “Don’t spill our chance,” the text said under the logo. Susan Glicksberg’s protest placard was more blunt: “Do Not Run!”Howard Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, has returned to his hometown, Seattle, and it has not been a uniformly warm welcome.Mr. Schultz, 65, has come under fierce criticism from many fellow Democrats for being a possible 2020 spoiler after he disclosed his interest in running as an independent candidate for president. He says he will weigh whether to run over the few next months as he undertakes a national book tour describing his vision for fixing America’s ills.[Check out the Democratic field with our new candidate tracker.]Thursday night was his first major appearance in Seattle since his political announcement. Roughly 40 protesters gathered to greet him before his planned event to promote the book and his possible candidacy. Some, like Mary Hanke, were overtly hostile to Mr. Schultz and his record as a businessman.“He’s just like Trump, and the last thing we need is another spoiled, self-absorbed billionaire,” said Ms. Hanke, 69, a retired tech manager.But many others, like Ms. Harper-Christensen, said they were more concerned about the impact of a Schultz independent candidacy in 2020: that a third-party run could split the vote and help re-elect President Trump, who is far more unpopular in Seattle than Mr. Schultz is.“I don’t even like to say his name,” Ms. Harper-Christensen said, referring to the president.Seattle is where Mr. Schultz made his fortune as a businessman. He organized an investor group to buy in 1987 what was at the time a modest coffee-bean retailer called Starbucks, with all of 17 locations, and building it into a frappaccino behemoth with nearly 30,000 stores around the world.Mr. Schultz left the company as a billionaire last year, and yet remains relatively little known to many Seattle residents, compared to other Seattle business leaders who have become household names — notably Jeff Bezos of Amazon and Bill Gates of Microsoft.But the Starbucks brand, with which many Seattle residents have a complex love/hate relationship, is everywhere you look. The historic nonprofit theater that Mr. Schultz hired out for Thursday evening is only a few blocks from the early 1970s-vintage Starbucks store at Pike Place Market — preserved like a museum, or shrine, and drawing tens of thousands of tourists a year. The corporate headquarters, with its blue-and-green mermaid logo rising from the rooftop, is a few miles to the south.In the riots that gripped the city during a gathering of the World Trade Organization in 1999, the shattered glass windows of Starbucks stores became one of the symbols of destruction by anarchists and other groups that roved the city denouncing corporate power.At least one other billionaire with the means to self-finance a bid for the White House, Michael R. Bloomberg, the former mayor of New York, is considering a run for president — in Mr. Bloomberg’s case, as a Democrat.But it is Mr. Schultz’s possible path as a moderate independent outside the two-party system that has drawn the most attention — and criticism by some Democrats who said they feared that a Schultz candidacy could siphon off more Democratic voters than Republicans.Washington’s governor, Jay Inslee, a Democrat who is also considering a presidential bid, said this week that he feared a Schultz candidacy could help re-elect President Trump.“Anyone who would run as an independent, and clearly split the Democratic vote, and clearly help Donald Trump — that would be a terrible decision,” Mr. Inslee said.But Mr. Schultz, in an interview with The Times and an appearance on “60 Minutes,” said he believed that the two-party system, locked in a war of revenge and spite, was broken, and that Democratic Party leaders had moved too far to the left on some policy issues.“Both parties are consistently not doing what’s necessary on behalf of the American people,” he said.A few people who came to greet Mr. Schultz at his speech said they agreed with him on at least that point. Jeff Jared, 55, a lawyer and self-described libertarian, carried a sign that said, “Run, Howard, Run.”“People are starving for a third party,” Mr. Jared said.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Nicholas ThompsonThis review was updated by the reviewer on Feb. 14 to reflect questions that arose after the review’s publication.MERCHANTS OF TRUTH The Business of News and the Fight for Facts By Jill Abramson 534 pp. Simon & Schuster. $30.In the early spring of 2014, A. G. Sulzberger, then an editor on the metro desk of The New York Times, handed Jill Abramson, the executive editor, a copy of the “innovation report.” Sulzberger and a team of colleagues had been working on the document for months, and they’d produced a vivisection of the paper. The Times had been slow to adapt to the emergence of new digital platforms; it had thumbed its nose at the internet and thus the future. The report was insightful, enlightened and tough. And it drove Abramson over the edge.She was upset because she didn’t think it credited her enough. Not a word of praise was offered for her having helped unite nytimes.com and the main newsroom. Worse, the report also encouraged The Times to loosen the barriers dividing the editorial and business sides. That, to her, was a road to perdition. “For me, it was an epic defeat,” she writes. She had wanted to be the executive editor who protected the newsroom from “crass commercialism”; she had wanted to avoid “metric charts influencing editors to promote stories according to their traffic.”She raged quietly and plotted.In May of that year, she made her move — and completely bungled it. She offered a managing editor position in charge of digital to Janine Gibson, an editor at The Guardian. Abramson then deceived her deputy, Dean Baquet, about the offer; when he found out the truth he was furious. A few days later, the publisher, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., A. G.’s father, fired Abramson. Baquet became executive editor.The episode, in more ways than one, set Abramson on a path that would produce “Merchants of Truth,” her book examining four news organizations trying to sail through the storm of digital transformation: BuzzFeed, Vice, The Washington Post and The Times. It’s partly a memoir and partly a work of investigative reporting. But it’s mostly an audit of an industry that has spent much of the past decade wetting its pants in fear of digital technology and then worrying about whether to go to the dry cleaners. And it’s a damn good read.The book tells the story in 13 chapters, three on each protagonist-company and one on Facebook. And it begins with BuzzFeed and its shrewd leader Jonah Peretti, the industry’s stalwart in figuring out how to profit off the ways modern technology taps into America’s id. The company he creates is a pioneer: at entertainment, at clickbait, at blurring lines between advertising and news, and at persuading other publishers to give him their precious data for almost nothing. He masters Facebook and quickly realizes one of the central lessons for modern media: New social platforms aren’t just distribution platforms for your old stuff — like your website or your newspapers. They are entirely new places, with new rules, for you to create new content.Meanwhile, as Peretti builds up an empire based on lists about basset hounds, he also creates a serious operation, BuzzFeed News, that churns out scoops and serious stories, including the first revelations about the role of fake news during the 2016 election. Peretti starts this money-losing wing, Abramson writes, as a way to create cachet for the money-winning side of his empire. The result is roughly similar to McDonald’s including slices of apples in Happy Meals.Next we turn to Vice, the hard-partying empire of cool that in 2017 turned its founder Shane Smith into a billionaire. Abramson is impressed by some of the journalism and perhaps even by some of Smith’s famous bluster. But she has a keen eye for the central irony at the core of Vice. The company created branded content for giant advertisers — and killed stories that criticized them — at the same time that it cultivated an image of rebellion. It was giving the Man the finger while simultaneously massaging his back.Abramson also has her eyes trained on what she sees as the company’s sexism: At one point, she quotes The Baffler’s description of Vice as a “vertically integrated rape joke.” And she pushes forward with the tale of an executive who cheats on his wife with one of his underlings, and then annoys that girlfriend by kissing another producer, who, the story goes, has to fend him off with an umbrella.Abramson’s critique of Vice is cutting. But Vice also turned the knives around. After the book came out, a Vice News correspondent noted multiple places where the author had included material nearly identical to what had previously appeared in other publications. Abramson apologized, and noted that she had pointed to the original sources in her endnotes, just not in the proper place. She also said that some passages should have been marked as direct quotes. Abramson’s book tour was suddenly consumed by conversations parsing the definition of plagiarism.The third setting is The Washington Post, where our story begins with the company’s earnest patriarch, Donald E. Graham — clumsily betting on local news even as the revenue attached to it dries up, and cannily betting on Mark Zuckerberg, who reneges on a handshake deal that would have given Graham a stake in Zuckerberg’s fledgling company. Abramson describes Zuckerberg lying on a bathroom floor and crying with guilt after the betrayal. In retrospect, it’s hard not to think that the young C.E.O. would have been better off keeping his word and choosing the sensible, moral journalist over the venture capitalists.Eventually Graham sells to one of the few men richer than Zuckerberg, and the paper begins its new life. An engraving in the newsroom appears after Jeff Bezos takes over with the mantra “What’s dangerous is not to evolve.” The message is exactly right for the industry, and it works. Bezos focuses on the product and engineering departments at The Post, making the pages fast to load and the stories easy to read across platforms. Editorially, it essentially takes the inverse model of BuzzFeed, serving a side of clickbait with a main course of serious journalism. Most everything works, and soon after Bezos arrives The Post has even more readers than The Times.Last of course is The New York Times, a story that benefits immensely from Abramson’s inside dirt, her genuine admissions about the errors she made and the obvious delight she takes in settling scores. In fact, nothing seems to please her as much as the moments when she can stick her knives into Dean Baquet. At one point, she tells the tale of a reporter named Eric Lichtblau. He was upset that a piece of his on Trump and Russia had been delayed, and then watered down. After The Times’s public editor weighed in, Baquet emailed Lichtblau: “I hope your colleagues rip you a new asshole.” Abramson then publishes another internal email from Baquet that she’s been given, this one complaining about Times reporters who had disclosed confidential conversations about the Lichtblau article. “I guess I’m disappointed that this ended up in print,” Baquet writes — a message that Abramson herself has now immortalized in print. It’s hard to know who has the moral high ground in this fight. But I do look forward to the Abramson sections whenever Baquet writes his own memoirs.As the book ends, the digital pioneers are in tatters. Vice has lost its swagger amid its sexual harassment scandals and its readership is in decline. Facebook has abandoned BuzzFeed, and much of the rest of the publishing industry. Peretti, who has always seemed to know where the media are headed before the rest of the media, seems temporarily as shellshocked as his peers.Meanwhile, the winners appear to be The Post and, even more so, The New York Times. Or as Abramson writes in the conclusion, “Of all the executives who had faced the ferocious waters of the digital revolution, Arthur Sulzberger Jr. had come closest to crossing to safety.” And the reason for his success comes from developing new products that depended on both the reporting and business sides, and following the metric charts that told the paper what stories to run.The book ends in a double irony. It’s titled “Merchants of Truth,” but much of the discussion after publication has been about whether the author’s sourcing was truthful. Secondly, Abramson was, indirectly at least, fired because of her resistance to the “innovation report.” And now she’s produced a marvelous book about exactly how prescient the darn thing was.Nicholas Thompson is the editor in chief of Wired magazine.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate Kelly and Ben HubbardThere was much to celebrate last spring when Ariel Emanuel, the chief executive of the talent agency Endeavor, helped throw a splashy Hollywood party for Saudi Arabia’s crown prince, Mohammed bin Salman.The soiree, with guests including the Disney chief executive Robert A. Iger, the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and the former N.B.A. star Kobe Bryant, took place as Saudi Arabia’s government investment fund was completing an agreement to invest $400 million in Mr. Emanuel’s firm. The deal was meant to finance Endeavor’s growth, while diversifying Saudi Arabia’s economy via the talent agency’s work in sports, events, modeling and television and film production.Less than a year after the star-studded party, Endeavor and Saudi Arabia have gone through a messy breakup, set in motion by the murder last October of the Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi.In recent weeks, Mr. Emanuel’s firm returned the $400 million investment, effectively severing Endeavor’s relationship with Saudi leaders, according to two people with knowledge of the transaction.It is one of the few instances of a major company halting business with the wealthy kingdom to protest its agents’ assassination of a journalist.A spokesman for Saudi Arabia’s Public Investment Fund, or PIF, which made the investment in Endeavor, did not respond to repeated requests for comment. Neither did Mr. Emanuel.Prince Mohammed has worked to turn the fund into a global investment giant whose profits can reduce the kingdom’s dependency on oil. On a high-profile tour of the United States last spring, the prince met with politicians, business leaders and celebrities. Many hailed him as a valuable business partner and a potentially transformative figure in the Middle East.On the prince’s American trip, the fund signed deals with the movie-theater company AMC and the amusement-park operator Six Flags to expand into Saudi Arabia. And it completed the investment with Endeavor, an alliance that Prince Mohammed hoped would lift the kingdom’s nascent entertainment sector.Then Mr. Khashoggi’s murder in October led to an international outcry.Richard Branson, founder of the British media and technology conglomerate Virgin Group, suspended talks with the Saudi fund over potential investments in his space-travel businesses. Executives from the private-equity firm Blackstone Group, the ride-sharing service Uber and Goldman Sachs canceled plans to attend a major investment conference in Riyadh, the Saudi capital.Mr. Emanuel joined the chorus. At an industry event in Cannes, France, on Oct. 15, he called the Khashoggi disappearance, about which many details had not yet emerged, “very, very concerning, really concerning. It’s upsetting.”Privately, Mr. Emanuel informed officials with the Saudi fund that he intended to return the $400 million that it had invested. Worried about the Saudi reaction, he began traveling at times with bodyguards, according to a person briefed on the matter.Mr. Emanuel canvassed other investors, including some who already had put money into Endeavor, to help fill the void that would be left when the firm returned the Saudi money, according to the two people familiar with the talks, including one who is an Endeavor investor.The process wrapped up in the past few weeks, with Endeavor investors kicking in money and the company repaying Saudi Arabia.Endeavor’s clean break with the kingdom has made it an outlier in the business community.Despite the American sanctions against 17 Saudis said to have been involved with Mr. Khashoggi’s killing, on top of the public outcry, most of the kingdom’s overseas partnerships have remained intact. Blackstone is using billions of dollars of Saudi money to invest in United States infrastructure projects. The asset manager BlackRock has said it will continue to manage Saudi funds. And Uber and other companies that accepted money from the Saudi government have not indicated any plans to return it.“People still want sovereign wealth fund money,” said Michael Maduell, president of the Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute, which provides research on government investment funds.Greg Fairchild, who teaches business ethics at the University of Virginia’s Darden School, said there was a strong argument for corporate leaders to follow Mr. Emanuel’s lead.While it might hurt in the short term, he said, “you can look in the mirror and say, ‘We’re just not involved in that.’”Ben Hubbard reported from Beirut, Lebanon.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Alan RappeportWASHINGTON — Two years ago, some of America’s largest corporations were tearing up their business plans to accommodate President Trump, fearful that he could send their shareholders and customers fleeing with a tweet. Now they have a new strategy: Ignore him.This week, General Motors became the latest recipient of a barrage of tweets from Mr. Trump, who is angry about the company’s closing of a plant in Lordstown, Ohio. The president told the company to reopen the plant or sell it “fast” to someone who would. He suggested that G.M. shutter a factory in China or Mexico instead.“What’s going on with General Motors?” Mr. Trump said on Wednesday during a speech at a tank factory in Lima, Ohio. “Get that plant opened or sell it to somebody and they’ll open it.”G.M. has not budged. After Mr. Trump’s tweets over the weekend, the company issued a terse statement noting that it was relocating workers and that it would be discussing plant closings with the United Auto Workers union. It made no mention of the demands of Mr. Trump. In the past, G.M. has blamed the president’s trade war, including tariffs on steel and aluminum, for raising the company’s costs.“Companies are balancing political pressure against their own return requirements,” said Philippe Houchois, an automobile sector analyst at Jefferies. “I don’t think they are being swayed.”When Mr. Trump was running for president, he promised to personally stop American companies from shutting down factories and moving plants abroad, warning that he would punish them with public backlash and higher taxes. Many companies scrambled to respond to his Twitter attacks, announcing jobs and investments in the United States — several of which never materialized.But despite Mr. Trump’s efforts to compel companies to build and hire, they appear to be increasingly prioritizing their balance sheets over political backlash.“I don’t think there’s as much fear,” said Gene Grabowski, who specializes in crisis communications for the public relations firm Kglobal. “At first it was a shock to the system, but now we’ve all adjusted. We take it in stride, and I think that’s what the business community is doing.”Early on, Mr. Trump’s ability to direct outrage at companies appeared to work. Before Mr. Trump even took office, Carrier agreed to keep 1,000 jobs in Indiana that it had been planning to move to Mexico. In 2017, Ford canceled plans to build a new factory in Mexico and increased its investment in a self-driving car plant in Michigan. Last year, Pfizer delayed drug price increases at Mr. Trump’s request after he threatened, vaguely, to take action against the industry’s pricing policies.More recently that influence has waned. The president’s scattershot attention span has diminished his power to persuade the business world to bend to his will, corporate communications experts say, as once fearsome tweet storms have devolved into ephemeral annoyances.At the start of the Trump administration, big companies hired firms like Mr. Grabowski’s to develop response strategies in the event they were targeted by Mr. Trump. His team would scour social media to understand the trajectory of Mr. Trump’s tweets and how much damage they could do to a brand. Ultimately the public relations problems usually proved to be short lived.“In the beginning, his tweets would actually hurt stock prices and companies were going into tailspins,” said Eric Dezenhall, a Washington-based expert in corporate damage control. “There is a clinical difference between what was happening in the beginning and what is happening now.”He added: “What’s happening now is there is tantrum congestion.”That congestion has been on display this week, as Mr. Trump assailed Facebook, Google, Twitter and “Saturday Night Live,” saying they are biased against Republicans. Those outbursts on Twitter were interspersed with attacks on political opponents, the Russia investigation and Senator John McCain, who died last year.While a tweet from Mr. Trump used to sink a company’s stock price, analysts say that these days a missive from the president’s Twitter feed merely injects a bit of noise into the market. Musings from Mr. Trump about the prospect of a trade deal with China or the Federal Reserve continue to rattle investors.Responding with restraint has been something of a reorientation for the public relations industry. The traditional playbook often entails responding directly, quickly and forcefully to bad publicity. However, when it comes to Mr. Trump, experts say an understated response that does not further agitate the president tends to be more effective.Mr. Trump’s power over companies started to show signs of slipping last year. After Harley-Davidson announced plans to move some of its production overseas in response to Mr. Trump’s trade war, the president repeatedly blasted the company as disloyal and urged his supporters — many of whom ride motorcycles — to consider a boycott. Harley-Davidson executives acknowledged the president’s disappointment, but pressed ahead with their plans.Another frequent target, Amazon and its chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has largely met his criticism with silence. In 2018, the president accused Amazon of pulling a “scam” on the United States Postal Service and convened a task force to come up with ways to overhaul the Postal Service business model that would allow it to charge higher rates.The task force’s report, which was released nearly eight months after the complaints, found that commercial package delivery for Amazon and other e-commerce retailers was actually profitable for the Postal Service and was not costing the United States “massive amounts of money,” as Mr. Trump had suggested in his tweets. Since then, the president has focused his attention on Mr. Bezos’ marital problems.In other cases, delay has been the path of least resistance.Pfizer agreed last summer to put off planned price increases after its chief executive, Ian Read, had an “extensive” call with Mr. Trump, who had said on Twitter that drug companies are taking advantage of the poor. In January, however, Pfizer moved forward with price increases on 41 drugs. Mr. Trump lamented on Twitter that month that drug companies were not living up to their commitments on pricing, but has not taken any action against the industry.Mr. Trump’s deal with Carrier has also been a bit less than advertised. While United Technologies, its parent company, agreed to maintain its Indianapolis factory in 2016, it still cut more than 500 manufacturing jobs in 2017 and 2018. Many of those were shifted to Mexico. So far, Mr. Trump has been mum.And Ford won plaudits from Mr. Trump for investing in Michigan, but after the spotlight moved on, it had second thoughts about abandoning its Mexico investment. Instead of canceling plans to set up shop south of the border, the company said that it would assemble electric cars there, in addition to its Michigan investment.For some companies, living up to the promises made to Mr. Trump has gotten complicated. Foxconn, the Taiwanese consumer electronics giant, won praise from the president when it announced that it would build a $10 billion television screen production plant in Wisconsin.In January, Foxconn appeared to hedge on that commitment, suggesting that it was too expensive to build the screens in the United States and that the plant would be less focused on manufacturing than it had initially suggested. After Mr. Trump had a conversation with the chairman of Foxconn last month, the company said that it was moving forward with its plans for the factory, but that only a quarter of the 13,000 people it planned to staff it would be focused on manufacturing.Despite Mr. Trump’s vast media presence and his popularity among Republicans, he has not demonstrated the ability to do lasting damage to a corporate brand that crosses him.Mr. Houchois, the Jefferies analyst, said he was not surprised that G.M. was sticking to its plan despite Mr. Trump’s displeasure. Broader economic forces, such as lower gas prices and falling demand for small cars, compelled the company to abandon the Lordstown plant. And Mr. Trump’s metals tariffs, combined with the possibility of more levies on automobiles, have been a drag on the industry and made car companies less inclined to do the president any favors.“The administration, to some extent, has made their life more difficult,” Mr. Houchois said. “They felt wronged by some decisions, on tariffs for example, so they are less likely to bow to pressure if they don’t think there is a business case.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]This week, hundreds of readers shared their reactions to the unfolding accusations against Joe Biden by women who said he had kissed or touched them in ways that made them uncomfortable.Many readers defended the former vice president as a product of a different time and questioned if the #MeToo movement had gone too far. Others insisted that making a woman feel uncomfortable has always been wrong.Since Lucy Flores, a former Nevada state assemblywoman, made public her accusations against Mr. Biden last Friday, multiple women have come forward, telling The Times, The Washington Post and others that he made them feel uncomfortable, bringing the total to seven as of Thursday afternoon. Mr. Biden released a video on Wednesday vowing to “be more mindful and respectful of people’s personal space,” though he stopped short of apologizing.Here is a selection of our readers’ responses, which came from emails sent by On Politics readers, as well as comments across our site. They have been lightly edited for clarity.Many of you defended Mr. Biden, saying he was from an older generation when social mores around physical contact were different.I am 68, a bit younger than Joe Biden. But I am from a big Irish family and we are always kissing and hugging people. It was an expression of welcome and warmth. Now I understand in this MeToo movement that there are those who are uncomfortable with such intimate physical expressions. So now that Joe has been called out on it, it is up to him to show his changed behavior if indeed he runs for president, which I hope he does. — Sally Ziegenfuss, PennsylvaniaI’m a 70-year-old woman who has always thought that male attention that might involve non-intimate touching was something to be pleased about, even proud of. This is definitely a generational issue and younger women need to have perspective and understand that what was very acceptable in the past, even a couple of years ago, should not and cannot be judged by today’s standards. — Ellen Goodman, MassachusettsBack in the ‘60s this issue didn’t exist. It was a different time. When will we stop looking back over our collective shoulders, and move forward? — Whitney Devlin, 74, New York But many others said Mr. Biden’s age was no excuse for his actions.I am in my 60s. Regardless of age or habitat, Joe Biden’s touchy feely actions with women (and men, allegedly) are disgusting and inappropriate. I don’t believe they arise out of innocent affection, though he may have himself convinced. They arise out of unconscious male privilege and are demeaning and distressing to those on the receiving end. — Joan Weis, CaliforniaMen of his generation assumed that the “affection“ being given would be welcomed and appreciated, particularly since it was being given by a man in power. The problem has been that nobody bothered to ask the women or girls.  — Lori Abbott Moreland, Sacramento, Calif.This is not a generational misunderstanding. Biden’s licentious behavior (let’s call it what it is) was never the norm and not what most women wanted or expected. — Dwight Dekeyser, 63, Cherry Hill, N.J.Joe Biden is facing a moment of “white man privilege.” Just because HE didn’t think that gently rubbing shoulders and kissing the back of her head wasn’t inappropriate doesn’t mean this incident can be dismissed as paternal or innocent. It is the woman’s feelings about the kiss/touch that matter.He lives in a different era and is no longer relevant to most generations. He needs to step aside. — Sandra Mathews, 51, Madison, N.J.Some readers said they worried the #MeToo movement risked going off course.Is this where we’re heading, to ban “jokes, hugs and kisses” from the public sphere? Early on we baby boomers rejected the stiff formalities of an earlier generation for an easy physicality, an appreciative give-and-take across gender lines that graced daily life with moments of lightness and warmth. Do we really want to push the Joe Bidens and Al Frankens from our lives? Maybe it’s generational, but I fear we’re losing something I’ve long cherished. #MeTooMuch. — Millie Olson, CaliforniaAs a college student warned constantly about the dangers of life on campus, I worry that the legacy of the MeToo movement will not be empowerment for women, but a generation of women terrified of interaction with males, who see any physical intimacy as a threat.When men kiss me on the head or squeeze my shoulders, it does make me uncomfortable. But does it make me uncomfortable because it is creepy or because I have been told I should find it creepy? I hope the pendulum will soon swing back to a more reasonable and thoughtful, less knee-jerk political and cultural climate. — Meg Edwards, OhioThis story personifies exactly what is wrong with the #MeToo movement. It started off as a positive force, bringing to light predatory behavior, and now we’ve gotten to the point where a squeeze or a nuzzle is horrific.This is exactly why the Democrats (who I am one of) will lose the 2020 election. We are eating our own, and to what end? — Monica Evenson, 47, Los Angeles Special thanks to Lela Moore from The Times’s Reader Center for help with today’s newsletter. To add your own response, visit our story in the Reader Center here.____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________This week, some 2020 candidates have been announcing their first-quarter fund-raising totals. Here are the ones we’ve seen so far:• Bernie Sanders: $18.2 million, 525,000 donors• Kamala Harris: $12 million, 138,000 donors• Beto O’Rourke: $9.4 million, 218,000 donors• Pete Buttigieg: $7 million, 158,550 donors• Andrew Yang: $1.7 million, 80,000 donorsWhat do these numbers tell us?With early polls largely measuring name recognition, these self-reported numbers give us the firmest comparison of strength in a crowded field. More donors, theoretically, means more support.For lesser-known candidates, the number of donors tells us whether they’re likely to qualify for the June debate — a critical opportunity to speak to a larger audience.What don’t these numbers tell us?These are the totals released by the campaigns, so they’re going to present the rosiest possible picture. The full filings will be officially released by the Federal Election Commission on April 15. (Tax day comes for everyone, it seems.)This isn’t a perfect comparison because the candidates entered the race at different times over the past three months. Candidates tend to get a big boost of donations when they first enter a race. Whether they can sustain that momentum is an open — and critical — question.How do these early numbers compare to past years?Pretty dismally, actually. Check out this chart by the Center for Responsive Politics, which compares these numbers to the first quarter fund-raising in 2008, the last time both parties faced such an open race.Barack Obama’s haul of $25.7 million, which neared Hillary Clinton’s $26.1 million total, was seen as a significant victory for the then-Illinois senator. The fact that today’s candidates aren’t raising that kind of dough indicates that the race remains wide open.____________________• In China, high tech surveillance, neighborhood watchers and a constant police presence have turned an entire city into a prison.• The details of the most expensive divorce in history are out: MacKenzie Bezos will get 25 percent of the Amazon stock she owned with her husband (and the richest person in the world), Jeff Bezos. Her share is worth about $36 billion.• Inspired by the Joe Biden news, a Times science reporter looked at decades of scientific and psychological research on why intrusions of personal space make us so uncomfortable.____________________The president tweeted a meme today. (No matter how many times we write that sentence, it never sounds any less weird.) This one featured a 15-second animated video mocking Joe Biden._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Uber published the prospectus yesterday for its long-awaited I.P.O., revealing the full scale of its ride-hailing empire — and potential warning signs for what is expected to be the biggest market debut in years.The main revelations:• $1.8 billion in losses last year, excluding gains from selling parts of its businesses in Southeast Asia and Russia.• $11.3 billion in overall revenue.• 91 million monthly users, including services like food delivery and shared scooter and bike rentals.• Its biggest shareholders include SoftBank of Japan and its co-founder and former C.E.O., Travis Kalanick.Growth is slowing. In 2018, revenue rose 42 percent from a year earlier. It had doubled the year before. And revenue from ride-hailing, its biggest business,  was roughly flat for the last six months of 2018. Growth in monthly users also appears to be slowing.That could be a concern for investors who had hoped Uber would maintain a meteoric growth rate. A potential $100 billion valuation may be lower than expectations, but Lex points out that it’s still a rich number.More: How Uber stacks up against Lyft. What Uber’s metrics like “core platform contribution margin” actually mean. And Uber executives stand to make huge bonuses from a big I.P.O. — its drivers, not so much.Chevron said this morning that it planned to acquire Anadarko, the oil and gas producer, in what would be one of the biggest deals in the industry in years.• Under the terms of the deal, Chevron would pay $65 a share in stock and cash. That is 39 percent above where Anadarko’s stock closed yesterday.• Including Anadarko’s debt, the transaction is valued at $50 billion.• Anadarko would give Chevron a huge presence in the Permian Basin in West Texas, one of the most valuable oil-producing areas in the U.S. It would also strengthen Chevron’s liquid natural gas reserves.If completed, the deal would be Chevron’s biggest since its $36 billion takeover of Texaco, which closed in 2001.The deal comes as oil prices have risen over the past six weeks after a reduction in supply by OPEC members. Futures for West Texas Intermediate crude reached $64.19 per barrel this morning, up 61 cents from their last closing price, according to Reuters.In Amazon’s annual letter to its shareholders, Jeff Bezos shared insights about the financial performance of his e-commerce behemoth.“Third-party sellers are kicking our first-party butt. Badly,” Mr. Bezos wrote. Third-party sales on Amazon increased to $160 billion in 2018 from $100 million in 1999 — a compound annual growth rate of 52 percent. Amazon’s first-party sales rose to $117 billion from $1.6 billion in the same period, a growth rate of 25 percent.Growth in Amazon’s total merchandise sales is slowing, according to calculations by Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion. She writes that the company sold $300 billion worth of merchandise in 2018, up 19 percent from the previous year. But annual increases for that metric were 24 percent for 2017 and 27 percent for 2016.“It’s unfair to expect Amazon to grow like a start-up forever. But it’s not insignificant that this slowdown has come even as Amazon has attempted to flex more muscle in newer categories,” Ms. Ovide writes. “It doesn’t seem like a coincidence that this comes as its legacy retail competitors finally seem to have awakened and adapted to the e-commerce era.”More: Mr. Bezos also dared retail rivals to raise their minimum wages. A Walmart executive shot back by asking Amazon to pay taxes.Four Republican senators said that they would not back Mr. Cain should President Trump nominate him as a Fed governor. That’s probably enough opposition to stop him from joining the central bank.“If I had to vote today, I would vote no,” Senator Kevin Cramer of North Dakota said yesterday, joining Mitt Romney of Utah, Lisa Murkowski of Alaska and Cory Gardner of Colorado in opposing Mr. Cain. They appear to have concerns about his qualifications and partisanship.Because Republicans hold only 53 Senate seats, a confirmation would require support from Democrats. That seems unlikely, given Mr. Cain’s frequent attacks on opposition lawmakers.It’s unclear whether Mr. Trump’s other pick for the Fed, the economics commentator Stephen Moore, will fare better. Mr. Moore has been embarrassed by revelations of tax problems, but Jim Tankersley of the NYT reports that he may win wider support from Senate Republicans.Mr. Trump’s efforts to politicize the Fed continue to outrage commentators. The Economist is worried that “the Fed will become a political weapon, and that America will move closer to becoming a nation where the welfare of the ruling party trumps that of the country as a whole.”As part of trade negotiations with America, China has offered new concessions on access in the cloud-computing sector for U.S. tech companies, the WSJ reports.• China is “proposing to issue more licenses that businesses need to operate data centers and to lift the 50 percent equity cap that limits ownership for certain foreign cloud-service providers,” according to unidentified sources.• “Amazon, Microsoft, Apple and others have invested millions of dollars or more to provide cloud services in China, but are hampered by regulations. Better access would potentially allow them to enlarge their presence.”• “Questions still remain over the details of the latest Chinese proposal, the people said, such as how quickly the equity caps would be removed, and whether the removal would be confined to certain geographical areas, such as a free-trade zone.”Both Washington and Beijing are offering a final round of concessions, hoping they will lead to an agreement. President Trump said last week that he expected to reach a deal within the next four weeks.The owner of The National Enquirer may have found a potential buyer: Ron Burkle, the supermarket mogul, the NYT reports.Mr. Burkle is known for buying distressed companies, having made his fortune through buying and merging supermarket chains like Ralphs and Jurgensen’s. He’s also known for hobnobbing with celebrities like Leonardo DiCaprio and Madonna.He’s also a big donor to the Democratic Party, and was close to President Bill Clinton. That would make his owning The Enquirer, the tabloid favored by Mr. Trump, unusual. (He is also friends with Mr. Trump.)But leaks of the Enquirer talks may scuttle a deal. After the NYT reported on the discussions, a spokesman for Mr. Burkle’s private equity firm said that the investor wasn’t in talks to buy the publication. The NYT reports that Mr. Burkle’s team felt “used” by American Media Inc., the tabloid’s current owner.The WikiLeaks founder was arrested yesterday in London to face a charge in the U.S. of conspiring to hack into a Pentagon computer network in 2010, the NYT reports.• “The Ecuadorean government suspended the citizenship it had granted Mr. Assange and evicted him on Thursday, clearing the way for his arrest.”• “At a court hearing, a judge swiftly found him guilty of jumping bail, and he was detained partly in connection with an American extradition warrant.”• “Mr. Assange indicated that he would fight extradition, and legal experts said that process could take years. He is likely to argue that the case is politically motivated.”The events brought to a head issues about press freedom. Mr. Assange’s work with WikiLeaks — obtaining and publishing information that officials would prefer be kept secret — are hard to legally distinguish from journalism. Some fear that journalists could be treated in a similar way.Mr. Assange was indicted on a charge of hacking, not publishing secrets. But people who are worried about press freedom shouldn’t necessarily rest easy, Charlie Savage of the NYT writes.More: President Trump once claimed to “love WikiLeaks.” Yesterday, he said: “I know nothing about WikiLeaks. It’s not my thing.”The dust has settled on the agreement to delay Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. for at least six months. But reactions to the situation have been mixed.Business are unhappy. For many larger companies, Brexit has already happened. But “businesses of all sizes are still pleading for Parliament to give them clarity before the economy slows,” Amie Tsang of the NYT writes.Economists are pleased. The I.M.F.’s managing director, Christine Lagarde, said that the new Brexit date meant that Britain would avoid — for now — the “terrible outcome” of a no-deal departure. The Bank of England governor, Mark Carney, said the delay would make a no-deal exit less disruptive.And Prime Minister Theresa May is pushing on. She has “renewed her effort to push through her Brexit deal with the aid of the opposition Labour Party, in a desperate bid to avoid holding European parliamentary elections in a month’s time,” according to the FT.Bob Iger said yesterday that he would retire as Walt Disney’s C.E.O. in 2021.Jamie Forese, the head of Citigroup’s investment bank and a potential successor to Mike Corbat as C.E.O., is stepping down.Google’s chief diversity officer, Danielle Brown, is leaving to become the human resources chief at Gusto.Maryanne Trump Barry, a federal appellate judge in Philadelphia and the sister of President Trump, has retired amid a civil misconduct investigation.Blackstone has appointed Kelly Ayotte, a former Republican senator for New Hampshire, to its board.Deals• J. Crew may spin off its popular Madewell brand to raise much-needed capital. (NYT)• Jay Alix, the corporate restructuring veteran, is leading a fight against what he says is McKinsey & Company’s control of the U.S. bankruptcy system. (NYT)• A bidder for Disney’s sports networks has accused Charter Communications of trying to subvert the auction process. (WSJ)• Goldman Sachs is trying to revive its once-dominant trading division by offering clients technology and new services like cash management. (FT)Politics and policy• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a 7 percent tax on corporate profits above $100 million, which would raise an estimated $1 trillion over the next decade. (Bloomberg)• The Senate confirmed David Bernhardt, a former oil lobbyist, as the interior department secretary, despite Democratic lawmakers’ concerns. (NYT)• A third of economists think even a small increase in the federal minimum wage would lead to job losses, according to a survey. (WSJ)• A grand jury indicted Gregory Craig, a White House counsel in the Obama administration, over his work for Ukraine. (NYT)Boeing• Families planning to sue Boeing in the U.S. over fatal crashes in Indonesia and Ethiopia must first prove their lawsuits belong in America. (WSJ)• The C.E.O., Dennis Muilenberg, said that fixes planned for the 737 Max jets would make them “even safer.” (WSJ)• Before the Ethiopian Airlines crash, Boeing had said that the 737 Max 8 was “not suitable” for some airports. (Bloomberg)Tech• Disney introduced its streaming service, Disney Plus. Featuring original content from Marvel and all 30 seasons of “The Simpsons,” it will cost $7 a month, undercutting Netflix. (NYT)• SpaceX launched the Falcon Heavy — the most powerful rocket in operation — for the second time. It also successfully landed all three of its boosters for the first time. Related: What’s next for the space race. (NYT, WSJ)• Tesla reshuffled the vehicle lineup on its online ordering system, making it harder to buy its cheapest vehicle. Also: Tesla and Panasonic have tempered expansion plans for their huge battery factory. (Bloomberg)• What’s Big Tech’s relationship with the climate? It’s complicated. (Axios)Best of the rest• Economists said that they see the Fed holding rates steady at least through 2021, according to a survey. (WSJ)• The new World Bank president, David Malpass, says there is too much debt in the world. (CNBC)• A defense lawyer for Carlos Ghosn says that detention is worsening his kidney condition. (WSJ)• Sales reps for Purdue Pharma visited New York State doctors a half-million times between 2006 and 2017 to promote OxyContin, according to newly filed court documents. (NYT)• Michael Avenatti, already facing fraud and extortion charges, has also been accused of stealing from clients and of lying repeatedly about his income. (NYT)• “Game of Thrones” returns on Sunday. Here’s how it changed television. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Vivian Wang and Jesse McKinley[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — Amazon has a market value of hundreds of billions of dollars, the support of New York’s governor and mayor and an army of lobbyists devoted to its plan to build a second headquarters in New York City.But that plan could be derailed by one man: Senator Michael Gianaris, the deputy majority leader of New York’s State Senate, who represents the Queens district where Amazon wants to build its new home.Through a confluence of timing, electoral successes and old-fashioned politics, Mr. Gianaris, one of the deal’s most outspoken opponents, is uniquely positioned to stand in its way: On Monday, the new Senate majority leader, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, nominated him to serve on the Public Authorities Control Board, a little-known state board that must approve the Amazon plan.Any of the three voting members of the board has the power to veto the plan, cementing Mr. Gianaris’s position at the center of the furor over Amazon.The nomination also made evident the dramatic recent change in his political fortunes: Mr. Gianaris, once a longtime but largely powerless antagonist to some of Albany’s most influential players, has become one of the Capitol’s central figures.Mr. Gianaris waved off the idea that the Amazon controversy had helped his political profile. “I would prefer if this never landed on my desk,” he said in an interview on Tuesday.He insisted that his opposition was grounded in a commitment to fighting economic inequality: “This is an inflection point about the direction of our country, and how we handle one of the greatest issues of our time.”His stance against giving Amazon as much as $3 billion in state and city incentives for the company to create 25,000 to 40,000 jobs in Queens was backed on Tuesday by Michael R. Bloomberg, the billionaire and potential presidential candidate who contended that Amazon chose New York for reasons other than “the tax breaks they got, which I didn’t think they needed.”But it is also undeniable that Mr. Gianaris’s opposition to the deal has won him progressive accolades at a time when the demographics in his district are rapidly changing; it overlaps with the district that Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez won last year.Mr. Gianaris, a Harvard Law School graduate and the son of Greek immigrants, has also long been viewed as someone eager to pursue higher office, and some of his opponents, including Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, have accused him of placing political gain ahead of good government.“I think it’s unfortunate that the Senate is playing politics here,” the governor said in an interview on WNYC radio when asked about Mr. Gianaris’s nomination. “Yes, it’s great politically to oppose the Amazon deal. ‘It’s Jeff Bezos, one of the richest people, why are we giving him a break?’”That is exactly Mr. Gianaris’s argument, though he denies any political motivation.“There are certain people who are very focused on dealing with the unfairness of income inequality,” the senator said. “There are others who are more worried about the wealthy and making sure we accommodate them. And they’re going to be on the other side.”But Mr. Gianaris also offered few specifics on what a victory for his side would look like.While he has called the current deal “unacceptable,” he has also said he does not want to force concessions from the company, instead pushing to scrap the current development plan entirely and to start negotiations anew. His office has sent out fliers telling Mr. Bezos to “stay in Seattle,” but Mr. Gianaris said on Tuesday that he does not oppose outright the idea of Amazon coming to Queens.He has previously said the company should build its headquarters in Manhattan and subsidize affordable housing in Queens instead; but when asked about that proposal on Tuesday, he said it was too early to say what kind of arrangement he would ultimately support.A poll released on Tuesday by the firm HarrisX and commissioned by Amazon found that 77 percent of residents in Mr. Gianaris’s district supported bringing Amazon to the area.Mr. Cuomo, with whom Mr. Gianaris has been embroiled in a long-simmering feud, would not say if he would reject the senator’s nomination to the state board.But the governor’s office has accused Mr. Gianaris of “flip-flopping” in his stance on Amazon, pointing to a letter that he signed in 2017 inviting the company to New York.Mr. Gianaris has consistently rejected that characterization, adding that the letter said nothing about state subsidies. But he also said on Tuesday that, given Amazon officials’ recent comments that they would oppose unionization, he would not sign that letter again today.In response to arguments that the subsidies would be more than made up by the jobs that Amazon would create, Mr. Gianaris said only that previous state economic development projects have been “littered with overpromising and underdelivering.”In a separate radio interview on Tuesday, Mr. Cuomo called that stance political suicide. “If the Senate is going to be the reason that Amazon leaves New York, I wouldn’t want to be running for re-election as a Democratic senator,” he said.Though Mr. Gianaris’s opposition to Amazon has inspired special ire from the governor in recent months, tensions between the two men long predate the development deal.As a state assemblyman, Mr. Gianaris raised more than $2 million in the 2006 race for state attorney general but dropped out when it became clear that Mr. Cuomo wanted the job.He was elected instead to the Senate in 2010, where he quickly became the most public adversary of the Independent Democratic Conference, a now-defunct group of eight Democratic senators who collaborated with the Republicans to give the opposing party control of the Senate. Many progressives accused Mr. Cuomo of condoning or even secretly encouraging the group.Since then, Mr. Gianaris has cast himself as a true progressive — a dynamic that has only become more apparent since Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s victory last summer over her predecessor, Joseph Crowley.Mr. Gianaris led the party’s efforts to oust the I.D.C., and last year he vowed to stop taking real estate contributions. In recent months, he has courted the support of progressive activists, including from the Queens chapter of the Democratic Socialists of America, which helped fuel Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s win.Mr. Gianaris acknowledged that the demographics of his district, which is rapidly gentrifying, had evolved.“We always make decisions as information becomes available and as circumstances change,” he said. “Certainly I care about what the people who live in my district believe, and I want to reflect that.”Nowhere is that more apparent than on the senator’s Twitter account, where his pinned post at the top of his profile is not a promotion of his own accomplishments but rather a full-throated endorsement of Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, writing that she “pushes bold change at a time people are sick of politics as usual.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen Weise and Thomas KaplanDeap Ubhi is a restless guy. At 26, he quit his job in private equity in Northern California, where he had grown up and gone to college, and then moved to India to found Burrp!, a local search site similar to Yelp. He sold the company in 2009 and along with other alums became what they called the Burrp! mafia, seeding and growing other start-ups in India.“Fast and is extremely straightforward,” one Indian entrepreneur wrote about Mr. Ubhi in an online reference. “Not for the faint of heart.”After returning to the West Coast, he joined Amazon in 2014 to encourage start-ups to adopt the company’s cloud-computing products. But in less than two years, Mr. Ubhi left to start a company that provided technology to restaurants, inspired by his family’s experience running an Indian-Jamaican-Mexican fusion joint.He then shifted his career in a new direction, taking his Silicon Valley mentality to the heart of the Washington bureaucracy. He joined a Pentagon effort to recruit techies, and turned the restaurant start-up into a side hustle. He wanted to use his skills not “to make a search engine more performant, or help a box of stuff get to a customer faster; but rather towards service of the American people,” Mr. Ubhi later wrote.But that circuitous career has landed Mr. Ubhi, now 39, in the center of a Washington drama. The question of what roles he played inside the Pentagon, and when, is holding up one of the largest federal information technology contracts in history. It is a scuffle with an unusual mixture of tech industry rivalries, national politics and the obscure world of government procurement.The project, a $10 billion deal to bring modern cloud computing to the Pentagon’s arsenal, drew the attention of the biggest tech companies from the moment it was announced in 2017. Amazon, Microsoft, Google, IBM and Oracle all wanted the prize.But it had a hitch: The contract would go to only one cloud vendor, even though many big companies prefer to work with multiple cloud providers. Amazon, the runaway leader in cloud computing, appeared to be perhaps the only company capable of fulfilling the Pentagon’s huge demands. And that is where Mr. Ubhi’s connections to the company, where he now works again, have thrown a wrench into the process.The software giant Oracle, which is widely considered ill equipped to land the deal, has aggressively criticized the one-vendor approach. As part of its opposition, the company is arguing in federal court that Mr. Ubhi’s ties to Amazon shaped the contract in the company’s favor.Before the case was filed last year, the Pentagon found that Mr. Ubhi had no improper influence, and it continued evaluating the proposals despite Oracle’s lawsuit. But in late February, the government said it had received “new information” about Mr. Ubhi that it needed to investigate, essentially delaying the process.A Pentagon spokeswoman, Elissa Smith, declined to say what new information about Mr. Ubhi had been brought to the department’s attention. The Pentagon had said that the winner of the contract was projected to be announced in April. But Ms. Smith said the inquiry into Mr. Ubhi was “expected to impact the award date.”Mr. Ubhi, contacted through Amazon, declined to comment, as did the company.Oracle also declined to comment. But in its lawsuit, Oracle has highlighted Mr. Ubhi’s outspoken enthusiasm for Amazon. In early 2017, he took to Twitter to thank Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder, for opposing President Trump’s travel ban. “Once an Amazonian, always an Amazonian,” he wrote.The comments touch on an issue floating around discussions about the contract: whether Mr. Trump would put his finger on the scale. The president’s disdain for Mr. Bezos and Amazon is well documented on his Twitter feed. At a private dinner with Mr. Trump, one of Oracle’s co-chief executives, Safra A. Catz, discussed the contract, Bloomberg reported last year. After that report, the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, said Mr. Trump was “not involved” in the contracting process.By the standards of most administrations, it would be extraordinarily unusual for the president to insert himself into the competition for a government contract. But when Mr. Trump was president-elect, he drew attention for taking on Boeing over the cost of a new Air Force One aircraft and pressing Lockheed Martin over the cost of the F-35 fighter jet.If Mr. Trump went so far as to say “who should compete, or how one company should be evaluated compared to another, that would be a first,” said David A. Drabkin, a former procurement official at the Defense Department.A Defense Department procurement official is formally overseeing the cloud contract, known as the joint enterprise defense infrastructure, or JEDI. But Ms. Smith declined to identify the officials who would be involved with choosing the winner.A White House official reiterated on Wednesday that the president was not involved.The military has lagged behind the private sector in adopting cloud computing, but officials have made clear that they know the stakes. The Pentagon’s move to the cloud has been led by the chief information officer, Dana Deasy, a former global chief information officer at JPMorgan Chase.“Battlefield advantage is driven by who has access to the best information that can then be analyzed to inform decision making at the point and time of need,” Mr. Deasy wrote last year.Adopting technologies widely used in the private sector is key to the mission of the defense digital service, the Pentagon tech team Mr. Ubhi joined in 2016. It is unclear what Mr. Ubhi worked on during most of his time in government. But in his last two months, during fall 2017, he did market research for JEDI, according to the Pentagon.In court documents, Oracle argues that Mr. Ubhi worked on JEDI when the Pentagon decided to take the approach of hiring a single cloud provider. Oracle cites internal documents in which Mr. Ubhi expressed support for a single cloud. When the Air Force awarded a different cloud project to multiple vendors, Mr. Ubhi wrote that the contract “makes me weep.”Oracle says Mr. Ubhi clearly favored Amazon over other tech companies. In an online chat conversation on Slack about another cloud-computing provider, he sent a closed-eyes, tongue-out emoji.Amazon has countered that the Pentagon identified 72 people substantially involved in developing the contract and its requirements, and that Mr. Ubhi worked on JEDI for only seven weeks, in the early stages.At the end of October 2017, Mr. Ubhi recused himself from JEDI, saying Amazon and his restaurant start-up, Tablehero, “may soon engage in further partnership discussions.” Two weeks later, he resigned and then rejoined Amazon, where he still works on the commercial, not government, side of the business, the company said.There is no evidence that Amazon bought Tablehero. Dheeraj Jain, an investor in Tablehero, said Mr. Ubhi has not responded to emails. “We have written off this investment, unfortunately,” he added. “And we are not happy about it.”The Pentagon released the JEDI request for proposals nine months after Mr. Ubhi recused himself. It said a single cloud would let it move faster and with more security, a decision the Government Accountability Office later affirmed.Because Amazon appeared to have a leg up, the contract immediately became a point of contention among tech contractors. Both Oracle and IBM filed protests with the Government Accountability Office, which adjudicates federal contract challenges. The office denied Oracle’s protest and later rejected IBM’s on procedural grounds. Oracle, whose cloud market share is small enough to be grouped in the “other” category in several leading research reports, took its fight to the United States Court of Federal Claims.The delays from the Oracle lawsuit could help Microsoft. In the months since the request for proposals went out, the company, which has supplied the Pentagon for decades, has improved its capabilities to the point that some experts believe it is an increasingly credible competitor to Amazon.But even if Mr. Ubhi is found to have tainted the contract, it is not clear that it would change the Pentagon’s plan to use a single cloud provider. The Government Accountability Office in November found that the Pentagon’s justifications “reasonably support” the decision. The office said it would be “improper” to go against what the Pentagon determined was best for the country, even if Mr. Ubhi had shaped the contract.When he was working on the project, Mr. Ubhi said that bolstering national security was the point.In October 2017, he wrote in a blog post that he believed his work on JEDI would “be a unique asset to help our men and women in uniform make more data-driven decisions, and to allow our leadership to be more effective.”Little did he know, it seems, that his work on it could put the project on pause, or, if Oracle has its way, in jeopardy.Kate Conger contributed reporting. Alain Delaquérière contributed research.Follow Karen Weise and Thomas Kaplan on Twitter: @kyweise and @thomaskaplan.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, the latest news on Boeing’s plane troubles, and more Brexit angst.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Here’s your roundup of the top news in business and tech, plus all you need to know for the week ahead. Even if your March Madness bracket was a flop, at least you can feel good about your news I.Q.MARCH 31-APRIL 6Boeing’s grounded fleet of 737 Max jets probably won’t be back in the air anytime soon. A preliminary report on what caused one of the aircraft to crash in Ethiopia last month determined that the pilots followed all of Boeing’s safety protocols. While investigators stopped short of blaming the company for the plane crash, the report does put more pressure on the manufacturer and aviation authorities to figure out what happened — and to make sure it won’t again. Boeing has already lost one order of its 737 planes from Indonesia’s national airline, and the longer it takes to get the jets cleared for flight, the more customers (and money) it stands to lose. President Trump said on Thursday that he planned to give Mexico a “one-year warning” to stop drug smuggling and illegal immigration or he’ll close the southern border. This was a big step back from a threat he had made the week before, when he said he’d close the border in the next few days. His initial statement was followed by widespread panic. A border closing would seriously harm the American economy, halting the daily flow of $1.7 billion of goods and services between the two countries. This would cause food shortages (where would we get our avocados?) and price spikes. It would also hurt the 500,000 legal workers, students, shoppers and tourists who cross the border each day. If you’re getting tired of Facebook’s user data — particularly your own — showing up in places it shouldn’t, you’re in good company. A cybersecurity firm reported this past week that it had stumbled upon a huge cache of Facebook user information on one of Amazon’s cloud computing servers. The information included millions of Facebook users’ passwords, comments, and account names, and all of it could be downloaded by anyone who found it online. The database was closed after Facebook learned about its contents, but considering the rash of similar cases in the past year, this won’t be the last breach of its kind. APRIL 7-13Mr. Trump escalated his sniping at the Federal Reserve on Friday, calling on the organization to cut interest rates and use other means to boost economic growth. He also continued to accuse the Fed chairman, Jerome H. Powell, of throwing water on the economy by raising interest rates last year. It’s unusual for a president to so openly attempt to exert influence over the central bank, but Mr. Trump is taking his efforts a step further by announcing plans to nominate two of his longtime supporters for seats on the Fed’s board. One is his “friend,” the former pizza executive and 2012 presidential hopeful Herman Cain, and the other is Stephen Moore, a conservative economist and adviser to Mr. Trump. Mr. Powell will surely be asked about all of this on Wednesday, after the Fed releases the minutes of its March meeting. European Union leaders will hold a last-minute summit on Wednesday to discuss the fate of Brexit, which has now dragged on past the point of absurdity. Britain is now slated to withdraw from the bloc on April 12 with or without a concrete plan, unless Prime Minister Theresa May can win Parliament’s agreement for another deadline extension. There has been much hand-wringing over the possibility of a no-deal Brexit, which could be disastrous for the British economy as well as its trade partners. To prepare, many businesses have staged their own reverse Brexit, moving operations elsewhere and holding off on investing in British companies. It’s a lose-lose for Britain, and prolonging the process isn’t likely to improve matters. A trade deal with China may finally be nigh. But then again, who really knows? On Thursday, Mr. Trump gathered with the Chinese delegation, which was in Washington for the umpteenth round of negotiations, to say that he’s anticipating an “epic” trade agreement in about four weeks. He was also expected to announce a presidential summit with Xi Jinping of China, presumably to sign that deal, but he stopped short of doing so. “If we have a deal, then we’ll have a summit,” Mr. Trump said. He is under mounting pressure to make good on the lofty promises he made to American businesses about an agreement, but the clock is ticking on the economic damage that trade tensions are wreaking around the world. Jeff and Mackenzie Bezos have finalized the details of their divorce. He will keep 75 percent of their joint shares in Amazon, leaving her with a $36 billion stake — which makes her one of the richest women in the world. Speaking of wealthy people, Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, is still battling with the Securities and Exchange Commission over his ill-advised (and unadvised) tweets about his company. A New York judge gave both parties two weeks to sort out their differences, and recommended that they put on their “reasonableness pants” to do so — a tall order, in this case.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ellen RosenIf you’ve been worrying that drones would be filling the skies over your head, dropping packages off day after day at your neighbor’s house, leaving food on doorsteps or photographing your every move, you can relax a little. At least for now.The hype over commercial drones is, so far, largely just that. One of the people who contributed to that hype was Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder. In a “60 Minutes” interview in December 2013, he predicted that deliveries by drones could become commonplace within five years.The fifth anniversary of Mr. Bezos’s prediction has come and gone, but widespread deliveries by drone are not yet a reality, neither by Amazon nor by any other company.Regulatory thickets, technical complexity and the public’s skittishness have proven to be formidable hurdles. At a minimum, the unresolved issues include whether it is safe to allow drones to fly beyond a pilot’s visual line of sight, to operate at night and to fly over people.But that doesn’t mean there’s likely to be a drone-free future. And maybe there shouldn’t be.Test programs around the world that use the technology for lifesaving pharmaceuticals as well as for food and even coffee are attempting to prove that delivery by drones is not only safe, but efficient and environmentally sound.Several companies, including Zipline, which is distributing blood by drone in Rwanda, and Swoop Aero, an Australian company that is dispensing vaccines and other medication on Vanuatu in the Pacific, are focused on medical needs.Others are turning their sights on consumers, hoping drones can be part of the answer to helping small businesses compete with behemoth retailers — or even helping the big guys keep their competitive edge.Ultimately, says the analyst Colin Snow, whether for sunscreen or sushi, the “big question is whether it makes economic sense to do ‘last mile’ delivery by drone. Some studies say yes, while others say no.”Chinese aviation administrators, for example, have already approved drone deliveries by the e-commerce giant JD.com and delivery giant SF Holding Co. But in the United States, it will depend on whether regulators eventually allow drone companies to have autonomous systems in which multiple aircraft are overseen by one pilot and whether they can fly beyond the vision of that pilot. Current regulations do not permit multiple drones per operator without a waiver. Operators like Wing, the drone-delivery company owned by Google parent Alphabet, have that capability.But the immediate economic return isn’t clear yet. According to the chief executive of Wing, James Burgess, “scale doesn’t concern us right now. We strongly believe that eventually we will be able to develop a delivery service for communities that will enable them to transport items in just a few minutes at low cost.”The company, whose drones can now travel round trip up to 20 kilometers — just over 12 miles — is participating in various stages of testing on three different continents. Its first pilot program is in a suburb of Canberra, Australia, where it is working with local merchants to deliver small packages, including over-the-counter medicine, as well as food. The Australian regulators have issued a permit to allow one pilot to operate up to 20 drones at a time with virtual oversight.“We’ve tried to keep expectations to a minimum and stayed humble. We didn’t have a lot of preconceived notions,” Mr. Burgess said. The Wing drone is a hybrid that includes, yes, wings for horizontal flying, as well as miniaturized propellers — like a helicopter’s — that allow for hovering over a destination. Somewhat surprisingly, the most popular item ordered in the Australia pilot is coffee, which can be received — still hot — in as little as three minutes from the time the order is placed.This spring, the company will begin a new trial in Helsinki, for which it is soliciting views as to what should be delivered.Mr. Burgess also said that, separate from drone tests, the company and others were working on a so-called unmanned traffic management system. Akin to virtual air traffic controllers, the system will be designed to permit multiple aircraft — manned and unmanned — to fly safely in the airspace simultaneously. Wing is also one of several companies participating in a pilot program in Virginia. As with its testing in Finland and Australia, Wing will focus on the delivery of consumer goods, including food.The Virginia site, in Blacksburg, near Virginia Tech, is one of 10 chosen by the Federal Aviation Administration as part of its Unmanned Aircraft Systems Integration Pilot Program.The 10 were culled from 149 applications from “state, local and tribal governments,” agency spokesman Les Dorr said in an email. Those in the industry didn’t apply directly, but could show their interest, he said, and more than 2,800 companies responded.Wing and Uber are two of the companies participating. But Amazon’s Prime Air division is not among those testing its technology. In a statement issued when the 10 locales were announced last May, the company said, “While it’s unfortunate the applications we were involved with were not selected, we support the Administration’s efforts to create a pilot program aimed at keeping America at the forefront of aviation and drone innovation.”Amazon’s Prime Air is, however, part of a consortium of companies participating in the European Union’s test of drone deliveries in Belgium.A number of smaller drone companies are involved in testing programs elsewhere. North Carolina has partnered with Silicon Valley-based Matternet and Zipline to deliver essential medical supplies and laboratory samples. In addition, Israeli start-up Flytrex, which is already delivering goods by drone in Reykjavik in partnership with online Icelandic retailer AHA, will focus on food in Holly Springs, N.C., a fast-growing suburb of Raleigh.Those in the industry, not surprisingly, say that the response from residents has been positive. A Pew Research Center survey in December 2017, however, found that 54 percent of Americans disapprove of drones flying near homes; 11 percent support drones, while 34 percent favor limits on use.Part of the reluctance, some say, is concern about privacy and sound. As a result, local governments are trying to educate their residents about drone operation. Noise levels are comparable to dishwashers and cars driving nearby, according to a report by Flytrex.Privacy concerns are in part alleviated by ensuring that drones do not have forward-facing cameras capable of photographing those on the ground.While the F.A.A. has chosen the 10 pilots, the programs still need to apply for agency waivers because they will fly beyond the visual line of sight, fly at night and fly over people, fundamentals not allowed under current law. The agency is seeking comments on expanding permissible uses under current law; it is also testing to evaluate the parameters of regulation.As a practical matter, this means that some of the pilot programs are not yet operational as they await F.A.A. approval.That’s O.K., said James Pearce, a spokesman for the North Carolina Department of Transportation, which prefers to ensure that the drones can safely fly and that those on the ground are not exposed to any risks, including those that are self-inflicted. “We need to make sure that people know not to try to grab the drones.”The F.A.A. is making quarterly visits, said Aaron Levitt, the assistant director of engineering for Holly Springs, N.C., and a drone enthusiast. He recently spent several days on a site visit with agency representatives as they prepared for the first phase, which will permit 15 restaurants to send orders to a local athletic complex, and planned for a later phase when the drones will fly beyond the line of sight.While the deliberate pace may seem slow, Mr. Levitt, like others interviewed, remains sanguine. “It’s like the red flag laws when cars began to populate the roads. You had to have someone walking ahead with a flag to warn others. That’s where we are today with drones — not being able to fly beyond the visual line of sight is like not allowing a car to drive faster than a person can walk.”While the companies, F.A.A. and local governments test the capabilities and limits, there’s another factor that comes into play. Unlike traditional car or truck deliveries, battery-operated drones don’t rely on fossil fuels for their short flights. A 2018 study in the journal Nature found that electric drones were “far more efficient than trucks, vans, larger gasoline drones, and passenger cars,” when comparing for distance traveled. And though the study found that benefits may be reduced once the electricity used for recharging and warehousing was factored in, drones clearly have less environmental impact than a one-item delivery by car.The environmental benefits are real, Mr. Burgess said.Or, as Yariv Bash, the chief executive of Flytrex said: “Now, you’ve got a guy driving a one-ton car bringing a half-pound hamburger. It’s crazy.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin Draper and Edmund LeeAmazon is coming to New York — to grab a piece of the Yankees sports network.Jeff Bezos’s tech giant has teamed up with the storied baseball organization in an effort to buy the YES Network from its majority owner, 21st Century Fox, according to two people close to negotiations who declined to be identified because the deal wasn’t yet official. If it goes forward in its current form, the deal is expected to take a few months to close.The Yankees will become the largest shareholder in the channel, a regional sports-focused network serving the New York metropolitan area that has been valued at just under $3.5 billion, the people said. That’s less than the approximately $4 billion it was worth five years ago, when 21st Century Fox increased its stake to 80 percent.Joining the deal are Sinclair Broadcasting, Redbird Capital, the Blackstone Group and others.The YES network was borne out of a partnership struck in 1999 between the Yankees and the Nets basketball franchise. The Yankees, whose business operation has been led by Randy L. Levine, its president since 2000, formally took over the project in 2004 and sold a 49 percent stake to Rupert Murdoch’s 21st Century Fox in 2012. A second deal, in 2014, gave the Murdoch company control of the company and left the Yankees with a 20 percent stake.The Walt Disney Company, the new owner of most 21st Century Fox assets, is managing the current deal as part of its plan to sell YES along with 21 other regional sports networks. The sell-off of those properties was a condition of the Justice Department’s approval of Disney’s $71.3 billion acquisition of the 21st Century Fox assets last summer.The companies involved in the deal declined to comment on Friday.Media rights to sports franchises are incredibly lucrative, but their value on traditional cable systems has waned as fewer people are willing to pay for traditional TV. A large part of the upside in sports rights now comes from streaming. For Amazon, owning a piece of YES could be a boon to its Prime program (which costs $119 a year), especially if that membership included access to those games. That, in turn, could add more revenue, as Prime members tend to buy more on Amazon than casual online shoppers.Amazon’s motivation becomes clearer when considering the fact that growth in the number of Amazon Prime members in the United States has slowed recently. It hit 97 million members last year, up from about 90 million in 2017, according to an estimate from Consumer Intelligence Research Partners.Amazon already streams “Thursday Night Football” on Prime, for which it had paid $50 million for one N.F.L. season. The company renewed that agreement in April for two more years in a deal worth $130 million, a 30 percent increase.With the rise of streaming, regional sports networks have found themselves in a tricky position. They are effectively the middlemen of sports rights; they get money from cable and satellite companies to carry the networks, but they, in turn, have to pay sports leagues for the rights to broadcast the games. Lately, cable and satellite companies have tried to pay less to carry these networks, given the decline in subscribers — but the sports teams are set to receive contractual rate increases every year.Unlike broadcast rights, which are controlled by the teams, local streaming rights are controlled by Major League Baseball. YES, and other regional sports networks, has the rights to show games online through the 2019 season, but how those rights will be controlled going forward is unclear. That could dampen the long-term value of regional sports networks. YES, however, could benefit from the fact that it is partly owned by the Yankees. M.L.B. has been trying to extract more lucrative terms from internet and broadcast companies for streaming, like the N.F.L. does, and it could end up granting those rights to the clubs themselves to help stoke new deals.Disney, along with AT&T and NBCUniversal, plans an aggressive move into streaming by the end of this year. Its deal for most of 21st Century Fox was a keystone to that plan. Fox’s regional sports networks would have become the “perfect complement” to Disney’s ESPN, the company’s chief executive, Robert A. Iger, said when announcing the deal in December 2017. But the Justice Department disagreed, and the two companies did not challenge the condition on the merger imposed by the government. Disney already has a sports streaming app called ESPN+ that has more than two million subscribers and will become an integral part of the company’s larger streaming strategy.Disney’s acquisition has not formally closed yet, and the company has 90 days after the merger is official to sell the sports channels. The company already has approval from shareholders and regulatory bodies in the regions in which it operates.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byStudent OpinionBy Jeremy EngleIn 2018, there were 585 billionaires in America, with a combined wealth of over $2.8 trillion. The wealthiest, Jeff Bezos, the founder of Amazon, has a net worth of $160 billion.The world’s eight richest individuals have as much wealth as the bottom half in the world, and the three richest Americans hold more wealth than the bottom 50 percent of the United States.Should there be a limit to how much wealth a person has? If so, how much is too much?In “Abolish Billionaires,” Farhad Manjoo writes:Last fall, Tom Scocca, editor of the essential blog Hmm Daily, wrote a tiny, searing post that has been rattling around my head ever since.“Some ideas about how to make the world better require careful, nuanced thinking about how best to balance competing interests,” he began. “Others don’t: Billionaires are bad. We should presumptively get rid of billionaires. All of them.”Mr. Scocca — a longtime writer at Gawker until that site was muffled by a billionaire — offered a straightforward argument for kneecapping the wealthiest among us. A billion dollars is wildly more than anyone needs, even accounting for life’s most excessive lavishes. It’s far more than anyone might reasonably claim to deserve, however much he believes he has contributed to society.At some level of extreme wealth, money inevitably corrupts. On the left and the right, it buys political power, it silences dissent, it serves primarily to perpetuate ever-greater wealth, often unrelated to any reciprocal social good. For Mr. Scocca, that level is self-evidently somewhere around one billion dollars; beyond that, you’re irredeemable.He continues by discussing the idea of abolishing billionaires:But it is an illustration of the political precariousness of billionaires that the idea has since become something like mainline thought on the progressive left. Bernie Sanders and Elizabeth Warren are floating new taxes aimed at the superrich, including special rates for billionaires. Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who also favors higher taxes on the wealthy, has been making a moral case against the existence of billionaires. Dan Riffle, her policy adviser, recently changed his Twitter name to “Every Billionaire Is a Policy Failure.” Last week, HuffPost asked, “Should Billionaires Even Exist?”I suspect the question is getting so much attention because the answer is obvious: Nope. Billionaires should not exist — at least not in their present numbers, with their current globe-swallowing power, garnering this level of adulation, while the rest of the economy scrapes by.Students, read the entire article, then tell us:— Should anyone have a billion dollars? Is there a limit to how much money a person should have? Are billionaires a sign of a country’s health or weakness? Are billionaires helping or hurting society?— How convincing is Mr. Manjoo’s case against billionaires? Where is his argument most effective? Where is he least persuasive?— How concerned are you about income inequality and the concentration of wealth in this country? What do you think should be done to address or remedy these issues?— In Reason Magazine, Nick Gillespie, a libertarian, responds to Mr. Manjoo’s Opinion column. He asks if the world would be better off if former Beatles musican Paul McCartney didn’t have a net worth of $1.2 billion:Would there be less suffering in the world if his money is expropriated and transferred to the wretched of the earth via higher taxes rather than through his own charitable donations and investments? Probably not, especially when you think about how much suffering, especially in the developing world, is the direct result of government action.He continues:“Abolish Billionaires” is a smart slogan, but that’s all it is. Figuratively lopping the heads off of the richest of the rich will not make life easier for the poor and dispossessed, and it won’t increase economic growth and living standards. It might sate the bloodlust of left-wing populists for a while, but certainly that outcome can be purchased for lower cost.Do you agree with Mr. Gillespie’s argument? Should we blame and punish billionaires for their own good fortune, hard work or talent? Will abolishing billionaires hurt economic growth and living standards and end up harming those less fortunate?Students 13 and older are invited to comment. All comments are moderated by the Learning Network staff, but please keep in mind that once your comment is accepted, it will be made public.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.Amid the continuing government shutdown, Jimmy Fallon joked that it felt like one big metaphor for Donald Trump’s entire presidency.“Everyone’s fighting. People are exhausted. There’s no end in sight. It’s basically like playing a game of Monopoly with your family.” — JIMMY FALLON“Today, federal workers protested the shutdown outside the White House. It didn’t help when Trump rolled down a window and was like, ‘Don’t you have jobs to go to?’” — JIMMY FALLONAnd Jimmy Kimmel piled on with his own critiques.“The Democrats say that this is a crisis manufactured by the president. The president said, ‘That’s not true — I only manufacture things in China. I would never do that here.’” — JIMMY KIMMEL“Trump’s been promoting the idea of a wall. He started with concrete and then I guess, in the spirit of compromise, said, ‘O.K., we’ll make it out of steel slats.’ But the Department of Homeland Security did a test on a prototype, and they found that the slats can easily be cut with a saw. So unless you have $80 and access to a Home Depot, you are not getting into this country. Maybe this was the plan all along: Build the wall, and then sell Trump-brand circular saws to the Mexicans.” — JIMMY KIMMELTrevor Noah took up the cause of a French restaurant at which clothing is disallowed. Unfortunately, Noah may be too late.“France’s first nude restaurant is closing Feb. 16 — which means my Valentine’s Day reservation is still good to go! Yeah, you know, nothing quite says ‘love’ like spilling hot clam chowder on my genitals.” — TREVOR NOAH“Can you imagine being a health inspector there? What happens, you just walk in and kill yourself?” — TREVOR NOAHFrontier Airlines has started encouraging customers to tip their flight attendants. Is it an abomination, or a watershed in the airline industry? James Corden seems to think it’s more the former.“Frontier flight attendants say the most valuable tip they’ve received so far is to go and work for another airline.” — JAMES CORDEN“This is true, Frontier Airlines wants you to tip. Not to be outdone, Spirit Airlines wants you to kick in for gas money.” — JAMES CORDEN“How do you tip a flight attendant? What are you supposed to be like? ‘Brett, these peanuts are to die for. And the way you poured a can of ginger ale into this flimsy plastic cup — mwah!’” — JAMES CORDEN“New research suggests that there is a connection between excessive social media use and risky decision making. You can read the entire study here.” — SETH MEYERS, showing an image of President Trump’s Twitter feed“Apparently, romantic text messages between Amazon founder Jeff Bezos and his new girlfriend have leaked to the press. Well, it depends on your definition of romantic. It’s a lot of, ‘Yeah, baby, do you like that? Then here’s a list of other things you might be interested in.’” — SETH MEYERSJimmy Kimmel: “Donald Trump puts the ‘tan’ in tantrum.”Michael Kosta, a “Daily Show” correspondent, attended a protest led by government workers currently on furlough because of the shutdown.It’s been 20 years since “The Sopranos” debuted. What are the 20 best TV dramas since then?Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowThe 100 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byOur emerging post-privacy order isn’t quite totalitarian, but it’s getting there.By Ross DouthatOpinion ColumnistIn our age of digital connection and constantly online life, you might say that two political regimes are evolving, one Chinese and one Western, which offer two kinds of relationships between the privacy of ordinary citizens and the newfound power of central authorities to track, to supervise, to expose and to surveil.The first regime is one in which your every transaction can be fed into a system of ratings and rankings, in which what seem like merely personal mistakes can cost you your livelihood and reputation, even your ability to hail a car or book a reservation. It’s one in which notionally private companies cooperate with the government to track dissidents and radicals and censor speech; one in which your fellow citizens act as enforcers of the ideological consensus, making an example of you for comments you intended only for your friends; one in which even the wealth and power of your overlords can't buy privacy.The second regime is the one they’re building in the People’s Republic of China.This is a dark joke; it isn’t meant to minimize the horrors of China’s march into information-age totalitarianism. Beginning with its successful taming of the internet, Beijing has treated the darkest episodes of “Black Mirror” as a how-to guide for social control and subjugation — with “social credit” scores and official public shamings for people whose daily conduct disappoints, official Communist Party apps that you’d better use if you know what’s good for you, surveillance technologies and facial recognition software as boots on the back of nonapproved religions, and compulsory internet as part of the brutal, tech-enabled replay of the Cultural Revolution imposed in China’s Muslim west.What’s happening in the West with privacy and authority is happily different. Unlike China’s system, our emerging post-privacy order is not (for now) totalitarian; its impositions are more decentralized and haphazard, more circumscribed and civilized, less designed and more evolved, more random in the punishments inflicted and the rules enforced.This means that, for instance, there is no central party apparatus encouraging our corporations to create individual “trust scores” for every consumer (even if they’re still doing it), no official commissars organizing digital mobs (even if shaming for random wrongthink is now a commonplace), no political persecution involved in most cases where public figures have their secrets and selfies exposed on the internet. (Perhaps Jeff Bezos's claims of Saudi involvement will pan out, but so far he mostly seems to have been the victim of his own stupidity and his mistress's brother's greed.) And it means that the radicals surveilled by corporate-government cooperation are mostly white nationalists and jihadists, not human rights advocates and Christian pastors, as in China.But this list of real differences is still also a list of partial similarities, of ways in which the architecture of our system replicates certain features of the emergent Chinese panopticon, even if the life lived within our system is still blessedly freer than in theirs.Indeed our system cannot help recreating features of the Chinese order, because the way that we live on the internet leaves us naked before power in a radical new way. In the West that power is still decentralized, diffuse, divided and polarized, and therefore likely to be limited and checked. But to adapt Deng Xiaoping’s famous call for “socialism with Chinese characteristics,"" the Western order in the internet age might be usefully described as a “liberalism with some police-state characteristics.” Those characteristics are shaped and limited by our political heritage of rights and individualism. But there is still plainly an authoritarian edge, a gentle “pink police state” aspect, to the new world that online life creates.And what’s striking is how easily we have come to tolerate it. Yes, there are moments when particular organs of surveillance get pushback — the N.S.A. during the brief “libertarian moment” starring Rand Paul and Edward Snowden, the social media companies from liberals when it turned out that the Trump digital team no less than the Obama whiz kids could exploit their user data.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]But apart from the high-minded and the paranoid, privacy per se is not a major issue in our politics. Most people want the convenience of the internet far more than they want the private spaces that older forms of communication protected. They shrug off the stalker-ish ways that corporations hurl their ads at you throughout your day. They put surveillance devices in their homes and pockets without a qualm. They accept hackings and online shamings the way a Californian shrugs off earthquakes. They assume that the extremists being surveilled and censored and sometimes arrested probably deserve it. And they welcome the possible advantages of panoptical living, hoping for less crime and less police misconduct, better public health, more exposure of corruption — plus, of course, the chance to see their favorite celebrities in the nude.So for those who object inherently to our new nakedness, regard the earthquakes as too high a price for Amazon’s low prices, or fear what an Augustus or a Robespierre might someday do with all this architecture, the best hope for a partial restoration of privacy has to involve more than just an anxiety about privacy alone. It requires a more general turn against the virtual, in which fears of digital nakedness are just one motivator among many — the political piece of a cause that’s also psychological, intellectual, aesthetic and religious.This is the hard truth suggested by our online experience so far: That a movement to restore privacy must be, at some level, a movement against the internet. Not a pure Luddism, but a movement for limits, for internet-free spaces, for zones of enforced pre-virtual reality (childhood and education above all), for social conventions that discourage career-destroying tweets and crotch shots by encouraging us to put away our iPhones.Absent such a movement we may not join China in dystopia. But the dystopian elements in our own order will be here to stay.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.Ross Douthat has been an Opinion columnist for The Times since 2009. He is the author of several books, most recently, “To Change the Church: Pope Francis and the Future of Catholicism.”
You can follow him on Twitter:  @DouthatNYT Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe rapper talked to Moj Mahdara, the C.E.O. of Beautycon, about financial literacy and how more women in beauty can “chase the bag.”By Crystal MartinThere is a lot of money to be made in beauty, and right now a lot of it is being made by male executives. Moj Mahdara wants to change that. The C.E.O. of Beautycon, which holds semiannual festival-like trade shows, recently raised $20 million in funding and has begun to open pop-up retail spaces in Los Angeles. She wants to see women achieve Warren Buffett-, Bill Gates- and Jeff Bezos-level wealth on their own terms. So she brought in a case study: Cardi B, the queen of “money moves.”Cardi talks about money without condescension. “Everything she’s telling you — about spending, saving, taxes — is transparent and through her lived experience,” said Ms. Mahdara. At Beautycon NYC, Cardi and Ms. Mahdara spoke about how the basics of financial literacy ignore some personal-finance realities. “You can save money when you can afford to save money,” Cardi said. “How you gonna save money and you have bills to pay?”Ms. Mahdara shared a common statistic on pay parity: A woman makes around 80 cents on a man’s dollar (a recent study found the gap is worse than that, 49 cents to every dollar). She asked Cardi for her insight on the matter. The rapper insisted she gets paid equally — now, at least. Back when Cardi was Insta-famous, but not yet “Bodak Yellow” famous, she hosted parties at clubs for a fee. It became clear that the rappers and other guys she co-hosted with were making more money than she was for the same job. “I said, ‘I’m going to stop taking bookings until y’all pay me more,’” she said. And “that bag doubled.” “Women are not comfortable talking about money,” Ms. Mahdara said, and men aren’t comfortable talking to them about it. She believes that her appearance and demeanor, as a butch, queer woman, intimidates the men she meets through business. “I think that’s half the reason I have issues with investors or people I work with,” she said. “I’m not a female they can put in a category and that’s uncomfortable for them.”Here, Cardi shares advice for leveling up, hustling and getting paid:Cardi said she was always shy, and that it took getting used to asking for what she wanted. “That’s why men are sometimes good hustlers,” she said. “Women are so timid. A lot of girls ask me, ‘How do I get what I want?’ By asking.” Cardi was a stripper for a few years before she found fame online and on “Love & Hip Hop.” She hates bringing it up, she said, because she’s not suggesting that women should follow her path. But she learned a lot about money while dancing for tips. “When I started becoming popular, I used to say, ‘I want y’all to throw me money. Don’t even talk to me if y’all not throwing me some money,’” she said. “Then when they started seeing me, it was like, ‘Here I know you want some money so let me throw it at you.’ You just gotta ask.” (Last month video footage surfaced on Instagram in which Cardi said that she drugged and robbed men while working as a stripper. In a statement, the rapper said, “I'm a part of a hip-hop culture where you can talk about where you come from, talk about the wrong things you had to do to get where you are.”)After having a daughter, Kulture, last year with her husband, Offset, Cardi feels even more driven to make money. “I can never be comfortable,” she said. Motherhood brings up thoughts of her own mother, who always told her to have children only if she could afford to take care of them on her own. “I used to think my mom was paranoid. But as you get older you understand what your mom be talking to you about,” she said. “I always dated guys that had money. But I didn’t have the money. What happens if we separate? I don’t want to be asking you for stuff — no, that’s not my style.”Cardi would rather see you using influencers as inspiration for how to get money rather than distraction from making it. “These bloggers making mad money from y’all watching,” she said. “Watch their recipe.” Cardi said the lavish lives rappers portray aren’t realistic. Flying private, for example, is at best an excess. But sometimes, to avoid the drama of airports now that she has Kulture, it’s unavoidable. “It’s a write-off sometimes, but you gotta prove all day that it’s a write-off,” she said. “And even if it is, that’s money you could've had.”Cardi said that people criticize her for her past work as a stripper. She should have gone to college, they say. She is candid though about the everyday expenses of higher education — like transportation, housing and food — that made community college unaffordable for her. “You cannot even get a room in New York City if you got a job that pays you $300 a week,” she said. She advises that if you’re working and hustling, do it with the future in mind. Cardi B is passionate about taxes but understands why not everyone shares her opinion. If she makes $15 million, for example, she told Ms. Mahdara, $8 or 9 million is going to the government. “Then you be like, ‘Damn, I gave all this money to Uncle Sam, and there’s still potholes in my street.’” And besides, health care and college aren’t free, she said. It’s part of why she talks about politics so much to her fans. “I keep educating,” she said. “I try to elevate.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byDAILY CROSSWORD COLUMNAndrew Kingsley and John Lieb leave little to the imagination (except, of course, an entire Saturday crossword puzzle).By Caitlin LovingerSATURDAY PUZZLE — Our two constructors have shared work on puzzles before. (If you read their notes, you’ll see that they collaborate in real life on a very cool crossword contest in Boston, which you could participate in, or attend, this year.) They seem like a pair of angels, but honestly, I blushed a couple of times while working this grid. Maybe it was just an overload of awkward Jeff Bezos news that primed my mind to go there, but it went there. Was I the only one in that PICKLE? I’m not complaining — it was a really fun solve!Actually, perhaps I clutched my pearls only because when I went to the classics to find an illustration for this piece, and honestly could not find a Pan statue or Minotaur from any perspective other than the one above that was SFW (Safe For Wordplay). I certainly hope no one is offended by la muchacha’s wardrobe malfunction above — if so, please refer to 48D. No matter: I know you’ll all snap your whips in the FORUM.Right off the bat I got stubborn at 1A with “Luddites,” which is wrong (it’s THE AMISH, a debut). I spend a lot of my day job rowing back and forth across the river between overworked developers and overwhelmed editors relying on fast-changing tech, and though the Luddites always have the best jokes, they always try to sink the boat. I adored the clues for SCOOPS, SPF and IN TEARS, but the whole grid today was really bright.Some cool portmanteaus today: I think GOBOTS counts, HOTLANTA, GROUPONS and maybe FLEXTIME, if you’re feeling a little permissive.17A: A toy kite, which could be gripped by a kid’s grimy paws, gets its name from a raptor with the ability to hover, unmoving, high in the sky waiting for the movement of prey. A kited check, which could be gripped by a scammer’s grimy paws, gets its name from the notion of a monetary promise, floating on air, with nothing to back it up. The grippers on the original kite? TALONS, of course, to grab that little bunny.34A: This guy (and the guy right below) have been in the puzzle enough times to not stump me, but I liked their proximity and also instantly thought, “YANNI is definitely a manscaper.” No? I couldn’t find any evidence of Yanni and BRIAN ENO actually working together, but the pyrotechnics in his 2015 concert at the pyramids of Gizathis pyramids concert knocked me out a bit so I’m throwing it in.53A: The clue was blind, I thought, but the word is odd enough that a couple of crosses allowed me to stumble on ICICLE. I always think of once reading about the perfect way to commit murder once — it might have been this interview with P. D. James.5D: This is a debut, and a newfangled word for an old practice (I refer you to “Emanscapation: Between the Public and the Pubic in Ancient Greece,” although I sure didn’t fact check that essay). MANSCAPING is one of those things that fashion magazines and pop culture seize on and make into a fad, but we all know that the MINOTAUR shaved his back (according to Picasso, at least).11D: Because of the pattern of my solve (knowing the last three letters here), I assumed this was some sort of “task” and thought myself out of A LOT TO ASK.31D: There’s a too-poor-for-a-ring prop that I assumed Homer had used to propose to Marge, a “cigar band,” although I couldn’t tell you why that slip of paper seems like a known alternative to some big expensive bauble. Homer was actually working (as a trainee) at a restaurant called the “Gulp ’N’ Blow,” where you could get a taco, or an ONION RING. The proposal is very darling, while Marge is “as big as a house.”Andrew: This puzzle started with the SE stack, as I had been trying forever to get PIXIE CUT into a puzzle (my sister proudly donned this style for a while). When FLEXTIME and DOMINATRIX fell into place, I knew I was cooking. Then I hit PANSEXUAL (more and more I’m trying to incorporate queer-themed language into my themelesses to expose solvers to aspects and identities within the queer community) and was a happy man. While I’m bummed that COME OUT was not clued as I had hoped, I am so happy by the sparkle that John brought to the left side — a true collaborative effort.John: It was great fun trying to fill the left half of this puzzle, working to build on the lively right half that Andrew presented to me. I’m excited to have our third collaboration appear in The Times. I’m also excited to be working with Andrew on the third edition of Boswords, the summer crossword tournament that we co-direct in Boston (with the help of an amazing group of constructors and volunteers!). The date is set for Sunday, July 28, and you can get more info at www.boswords.org. Hope to see you there!Subscribers can take a peek at the answer key. Trying to get back to the puzzle page? Right here. What did you think?Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLanguage has been neutralized when it should state the obvious.By Timothy EganContributing Opinion Writer You could always slight the very rich by calling them moneybags, robber barons, fat cats or plutocrats. Billionaire was a neutral word, grounded in math: Such a person could spend $10 million a year, for 100 years, before the pile was gone.Then came Howard Schultz, a billionaire times two, insisting that people not use the B-word in describing him. Better to refer to the 540 Americans in his sensitive class as “people of means.” For this he was roundly mocked, and rightly so.The pushback to the pusher of our favorite South American drug is a fair start. But there is much more to clean up. For we live in a time when language has been weaponized for high crimes and petty cruelties, while neutralized when it should state the obvious. Democracy may die in darkness, as the slogan of a rival newspaper has it, but it also slips away under cover of euphemism.You can date it to Republican repackaging of the estate tax as a “death tax,” or tax cuts for the rich morphing into “tax relief” for the overly burdened. And were French fries really “freedom fries” during a spasm of faux-patriotism?Maybe the food marketers started us down this road when “natural” was slapped onto any label — turpentine, for example, which also happens to be gluten-free. Or Big Pharma, using “wellness” to describe treatment by drugs with names from a dance party: Lyrica, Celebrex, and then the Cialis gets passed around.All of that can be excused as framing to get an advantage. The Democrats are doing it now with the Green New Deal and “Medicare for all” — both of which sound pleasantly pie-in-the-sky and historically resonant until you look at the details, which their sponsors didn’t bother to do.The most egregious of political language fraud, as George Orwell noted in his seminal essay on the subject, is used for “the defense of the indefensible.” To that end, the Trump administration has been a fount of criminal circumlocution.We all know about “alternative facts” and “truth isn’t truth” and “fake news” — used by the administration to describe reality. But less attention has been paid to this government’s description of cages for young children separated from their parents. The Trump administration has invented “tender age” shelters to defend the indefensible. It sounds so caring.And Trump is downgrading “national emergency” from something that comes with a siren for a soundtrack to just another term for cheap political expediency. It used to be a big deal for a reputable news organization to flat out call the president a liar. Now, liar must be the most-used descriptor linked to this president. It’s also the right word. But “liar” has lost its sting, because Trump clearly doesn’t care about telling the truth. As a journalist, I’d get in more trouble if I said the president is fat — my bad, I mean plus-sized.The word “socialist” is back in play. This term also used to sting, evoking Cold War authoritarians and empty store shelves. That was true then. What’s true now is that socialist “has lost its meaning,” especially among millennials, as Peter Buttigieg, the young presidential aspirant and mayor of South Bend, Ind., said.If used to describe help for the elderly, subsidized college or affordable health care, socialist is a net plus. If it implies total government control without choice, it’s a loser. We’ve only just begun the modern reframing of this power word.At the White House, “executive time” is the bogus term for the majority of the president’s day spent watching Fox News hosts praise him, tweeting insults or playing virtual golf in the new room-sized simulator just installed in the house where Lincoln slept. Kramer did more work in the “Seinfeld” episode where he pretended to have a job.The border “wall” is a “complexifier,” to use the odd word that multibillionaire Jeff Bezos introduced, but also central to Trumpian Newspeak. The wall doesn’t exist, not in the form Trump has described it — “a great, great wall” made of “hardened concrete.” And yet, it’ll soon be finished. How so?In a masterstroke of up-is-down, Trump’s rally in El Paso this week switched the “Build the Wall” slogan of his cult to “Finish the Wall.” As my colleagues at Upshot showed, Trump keeps weaseling out of his wall promise by changing the wording — a fence, a barrier, some German shepherds.The language is crucial here, because it’s the central lie of his presidency. Like Schultz, Trump wants to use his own verbal wallpaper to cover the truth. I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@nytegan).The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Bipartisan negotiations to forge a border security deal broke down yesterday, potentially setting up the federal government for another shutdown ahead of a Friday deadline.What happened? “The impasse appears to center on Democratic demands for a limit on the number of unauthorized immigrants already in the country who could be detained by Immigration and Customs Enforcement officers, according to aides familiar with the talks,” according to the NYT. Republicans wanted an exception to the cap for criminals; Democrats said a proposed 16,500-bed cap left more than enough room for them.What’s at stake? The last shutdown, the longest in U.S. history, cost the American economy $11 billion and tanked President Trump’s political standing with the public. Another shutdown could cause more economic harm, hitting the I.R.S. just as tax season starts.What’s next? Lawmakers could pass another short-term spending bill, though many are reluctant to punt on a final budget agreement again. Meanwhile, Mr. Trump is preparing to hold a rally for supporters in El Paso. (Many in the city aren’t happy with that.) But he really has only two choices, according to Axios: shut down the government or declare a national emergency to get border wall money, and “both options are horrible.”The Amazon founder risked embarrassment by going public with what he said was an extortion attempt by The National Enquirer. So far, he’s scoring big points (“Saturday Night Live” jokes aside).His disclosure has gotten results. Federal prosecutors are reviewing his extortion claim, the NYT reports, citing unnamed sources. If The Enquirer’s parent company broke the law, it would be in violation of a nonprosecution agreement over its paying hush money to help President Trump in 2016. (A lawyer for the publisher’s chairman said yesterday that the company committed no crime.)And he’s winning the P.R. battle. At a time when billionaires are reviled, Maureen Dowd of the NYT writes, “the richest dude on earth has managed to come through a traumatic week inspiring admiration.” (Glenn Greenwald of The Intercept counters that it would be odd for Mr. Bezos to gain pity, given that Amazon “is a critical partner for the U.S. government in building an ever-more invasive, militarized and sprawling surveillance state.”)Where did The Enquirer go wrong? Danny Westneat of The Seattle Times points out that it picked a fight with the head of a company so powerful that it got Seattle to change its tax policies and won $3 billion in tax incentives from New York for office space. “You don’t pressure Amazon. It only goes the other way around,” Mr. Westneat writes.But Mr. Bezos could still lose. Jon Swartz of Barron’s notes that Amazon shares fell 2.6 percent on Friday. “His hands-on management is considered crucial to the success of the company and anything that pulls his attention away from day-to-day management is at least a concern for investors,” Mr. Swartz writes.Fears that Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U. could roil economies have now officially spread across the Atlantic.Wall Street has been warned about Brexit’s impact. “With less than seven weeks to go before the U.K. is due to leave the E.U., several S&P 500 groups have for the first time put Wall Street on formal notice of the risks should London and Brussels fail to reach a divorce deal,” the FT reports. Companies like Lockheed Martin, McCormick, Expedia and Cadbury have all spoken out.Driving the concern are fears that a depressed pound could make American goods unaffordable in Britain, while the costs of imported British goods could rise. There’s also a fear about the broader effect of Brexit on global political and economic stability.American banks are also nervous. “While U.S. banks want Britain to maintain the closest possible ties with the EU after Brexit, U.K. banks and insurers are anxious they don’t become beholden to new laws made by Brussels,” Bloomberg reports.More Brexit news: The E.U.’s chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, said that he “will not reopen” the existing Brexit deal, but is open to reworking the political declaration that accompanies it. The British government is trying to secure an extra two weeks in which to win concessions from Europe by promising lawmakers another vote on Britain’s withdrawal options. And Prime Minister Theresa May has also offered concessions to the opposing Labour Party to break the current impasse in Parliament.Americans are getting a rude surprise: Their refunds appear to be getting smaller, despite President Trump and Republicans passing a huge set of tax cuts over a year ago.How big is the drop? “The average refund of $1,865 was 8.4 percent smaller than the average refund in the period last year,” Reuters reports, citing figures from the I.R.S. Heather Long of the WaPo adds that the number of people receiving a refund has fallen by nearly 25 percent so far. (The I.R.S. warns not to read too much into the figures, because this is just part of the data — a result of delayed processing due to the government shutdown.)Why is this happening? It’s not actually a sign that Americans are paying more in taxes. “People generally got a piece of their tax cut last year gradually in the form of lower withholding on their paychecks,” Joseph Rosenberg of the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center told the WaPo.People are angry nonetheless. The WaPo reports: “People have already taken to social media, using the hashtag #GOPTaxScam, to vent their anger. Many blame President Trump and the Republicans for shrinking refunds. Some on Twitter even said they wouldn’t vote for Trump again after seeing their refunds slashed.”The last class of tech companies that gained valuations of over $1 billion, including Uber and Airbnb, remade entire industries. Don’t expect the next wave to be nearly as flashy, according to Erin Griffith of the NYT.Who are they? They have names like Benchling, Checkr and Zola, and many create software for specific industries — including data analysis systems for farmers and background checks for gig workers.Why aren’t they as exciting as their predecessors? Ms. Griffith points out that Uber, Airbnb and their peers “built global empires by simply taking existing businesses — like taxis, food delivery and hotels — and making them mobile.” Easy opportunities to disrupt traditional businesses have dried up, forcing new companies to find smaller niches.But don’t underestimate their potential. “Maybe it’s not as sexy as the companies in the first wave,” the venture capitalist Kirsten Green conceded to the NYT. But Anand Sanwal of the data provider CB Insights said they were still growing fast, adding, “If you are one of those high-momentum companies, investors are going to be beating down your door because there is so much interest in investing in the next big winner.”Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, warned yesterday of a global economy “that is growing more slowly than we had anticipated.”She sees four big risks. “Trade tensions and tariff escalations, financial tightening, uncertainty related to Brexit outcome and spillover impact and an accelerated slowdown of the Chinese economy” are all “clouds” on the horizon, she told the World Government Summit in Dubai.And they could spell trouble. “When there are too many clouds,” she added, it takes just one lighting bolt “to start the storm.”But the I.M.F. thinks the Fed is playing smart. “The fact that the Fed has put a pause on raising rates is going to provide a lot of support to the economy,” Gita Gopinath, the I.M.F.’s top economist, told the FT. “We endorse the Fed view of having a data-driven approach.”President Trump is expected to sign an executive order today meant to spur the development and regulation of artificial intelligence, Cade Metz of the NYT writes.The news: Mr. Trump is to introduce the “American A.I. Initiative,” which aims to better educate workers in the field, improve access to the cloud computing services and data needed to build A.I. systems, and promote cooperation with foreign powers.Context: “A.I. experts across industry, academia and government have long called on the Trump administration to make the development of artificial intelligence a major priority,” Mr. Metz writes, adding that they are “concerned that China could surpass the United States” in the development of such technologies.But: “The order does not set aside funds for A.I. research and development,” Mr. Metz adds, “and the administration provided few details on how it will put its new policies into effect.”Steve Mandel has stepped down as the head of the hedge fund Lone Pine Capital.Among the reasons Santander rescinded its offer to hire the investment banker Andrea Orcel? Reportedly his desire to attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.Kristina Salen, a former chief financial officer of the shopping site Etsy, has joined Moda Operandi, a luxury fashion start-up, as its C.F.O.The English Premier League is looking to America for a successor to its C.E.O., Richard Scudamore. British candidates appear uninterested in the job.Deals• The aluminum-parts maker Arconic plans to break itself up. (WSJ)• Apollo Global Management is reportedly near a deal to buy Cox Enterprises’s 14 regional TV stations for about $3 billion. (Reuters)• The medical equipment maker Smith & Nephew reportedly held talks to buy NuVasive, a maker of medical instruments for spinal surgeries, for more than $3 billion. (FT)• TPG Capital closed its seventh Asia-focused private equity fund at over $4.6 billion. (Reuters)Politics and policy• Democratic lawmakers are proposing steep new taxes on the superrich — and the public loves it. (NYT)• Senator Michael Bennet, Democrat of Colorado and a potential presidential candidate, says that cutting private health insurance as part of Medicare for all is a “bad opening offer.” (Politico)• President Trump succeeded in dividing Democrats by warning about socialism. (Hill)• The biggest star of Clive Davis’s exclusive pre-Grammys gala? Speaker Nancy Pelosi. (AP)Trade• Trade talks between the U.S. and China resume today in Beijing. (Straits Times)• White House officials have reportedly discussed a summit meeting between President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China at Mar-a-Lago next month to resolve the trade fight. (Axios)• The trade agreement to replace Nafta faces an uphill climb in Congress. (Axios)Tech• Some Amazon executives are reportedly reconsidering the decision to set up a campus in New York, but opponents think that might be a bluff. (WSJ, Recode)• Huawei has threatened to sue the Czech Republic if the country’s cybersecurity agency does not rescind a warning about the risk the company poses to the nation’s critical infrastructure. (NYT)• Sprint accused AT&T of false advertising, saying that its rival is incorrectly telling customers that they are receiving 5G data service. (WSJ)• Tesla may finally be delivering Model 3s, but now it can’t keep up with servicing them. (WSJ)Best of the rest• A new activist hedge fund, Impactive Capital, is a rarity: It’s female- and minority-led. (WSJ)• Household staples, from diapers to baking soda, may get more expensive. (WSJ)• U.S. colleges raised $46.7 billion in the year that ended last June, led by Harvard with $1.4 billion. (Bloomberg)• Here’s a rundown of the 100 most sustainable U.S. companies, according to Barron’s. (Barron’s)• How the Fed’s recent U-turn on rates cascaded through global markets. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe ShiftBy Kevin RooseAUSTIN, Tex. — Among the techies who attended the annual South by Southwest Interactive conference the past few days, the hottest topic of conversation — besides the swarms of drunken idiots careening around Austin on rented electric scooters — was Senator Elizabeth Warren’s ground-shaking proposal to break up large tech companies like Amazon, Google and Facebook.In her proposal, which she released on the eve of the conference, Ms. Warren argued that these companies have abused their power and harmed competition in two big ways.The first is by offering their own products on platforms they control: Amazon giving preferential treatment to its house brands, or Apple promoting its own apps inside the iOS App Store. Ms. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat and presidential candidate, argues that the companies should be required to do one or the other — sell their own goods or run a third-party marketplace — but not both.“You can be an umpire or you can own teams,” she said. “But you can’t be an umpire and own one of the teams that’s in the game.”Ms. Warren also argues that by acquiring potential competitors, as in Facebook’s acquisitions of Instagram and WhatsApp, large tech companies have made it harder for smaller start-ups to compete on fair terms. She proposes appointing regulators who would undo such mergers, and break up the conglomerates.Regulating big tech is quickly becoming a central theme of the 2020 presidential race. Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and others have also talked about the need to rein in the tech giants. And Ms. Warren has demonstrated more technology literacy than most elected officials.But many of the tech-industry insiders I spoke with in Austin, including some who agree with Ms. Warren that the big companies are too powerful, cautioned that some of the details in her proposal were too vague, and could backfire if put into effect as written.Ms. Warren’s plan is a bold first stab at reform, and some of her proposals make a lot of sense. But I’d offer a few edits.Apply specific fixes to specific problems. One shortcoming in Ms. Warren’s plan — and it’s an understandable one, given that this is a campaign proposal and not a final set of rules — is that it proposes broad solutions to narrow problems.Lawmakers don’t typically craft regulations for individual companies. That’s for good reason: A law that specifically targeted Amazon, and not its competitors, would be seen as creating an unfair double standard.Instead, Ms. Warren’s proposal targets technology companies with more than $25 billion in annual revenue that operate third-party marketplaces — a group that includes Apple, Amazon, Facebook and Google — and proposes a set of rules that apply to all of them, as well as any companies that meet the threshold in the future. (Microsoft, which makes more than $25 billion in annual revenue and has a third-party marketplace in the form of the Windows app store, was somehow spared.)The problem with applying a one-size-fits-four model to tech, as the industry analyst Ben Thompson has written, is that the large tech companies have different business models that pose different anti-competitive risks. The stranglehold that Google and Facebook have on the digital advertising market is different from the way Amazon muscles out e-commerce brands, which is different from the way Apple uses its App Store to force burdensome terms on developers.The possibility of unintended consequences means that tailoring regulations to address each of these problems is important. A law that banned Amazon from competing with third-party sellers on its platform could also cripple Chromebook laptops, or prevent iPhone users from getting access to their iTunes libraries.Rather than one giant package that crams everything together, a set of effective tech regulations would treat each problem discretely, and address each with surgical precision.Split off cloud businesses. Ms. Warren proposes having big tech companies split off significant chunks of their businesses, like separating Google’s ad operations from its search engine. But she does not mention one of the clearest examples of oligopolistic behavior in the tech industry: cloud computing.Right now, much of the internet is powered by infrastructure owned by a small number of giant tech companies that include Amazon, Microsoft and Google. These companies make a killing by renting out data storage, computing power and other essential services to other businesses, essentially selling the picks and shovels of the digital gold rush.The cloud-computing market may not seem like an obvious antitrust target. It is highly competitive, and years of price wars between the giants have driven the costs of these services down. Doesn’t giving young start-ups the ability to rent world-class infrastructure make it easier, not harder, for them to compete?Yes, it does. But the concentration of critical infrastructure among so few companies — each of which also operates enormous consumer-internet businesses of its own — gives those companies enormous power, and invites anti-competitive abuse.For example, let’s imagine that Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, decided to sabotage Netflix, which runs on Amazon Web Services, Amazon’s cloud-computing unit, in order to help his company’s streaming video service. He could theoretically tell the Amazon Web Services team to slow Netflix’s traffic, or analyze its usage patterns to determine which Netflix shows Amazon’s streaming-video team should copy.To be clear, Mr. Bezos is extremely unlikely to do that, given that it would be a scandalous violation of Amazon’s privacy policies and would cost the company a lucrative customer. But the reality that companies with dominant internet services also provide the infrastructure that powers much of the consumer internet is a clear example of the kind of market consolidation Ms. Warren is trying to address.An effective breakup proposal could require companies like Amazon, Google and Microsoft to spin their cloud-computing divisions off into stand-alone businesses, in a manner similar to the one Ms. Warren proposed for breaking up e-commerce marketplaces. To adapt her baseball analogy, tech companies would either play on the team or own the stadium, but not both.Get rid of the “app tax.” Another easy, specific fix would be to stop Apple and Google, the makers of the two dominant mobile operating systems, from taking unfair advantage of mobile app developers.At the moment, any company that wants to sell in-app purchases or subscriptions through an iOS app must pay what software developers derisively call the “Apple tax”: a fee of 15 to 30 percent that Apple skims off the top of in-app purchases and subscriptions bought by users. (Google’s mobile app store charges similar fees.)These fees add up quickly. Before it removed in-app subscriptions last year, Netflix was paying Apple an estimated $700,000 a day for the privilege of selling subscriptions in its app. And some competitors have begun to complain that these platforms’ strict developer policies amount to bullying. On Wednesday, Spotify filed a complaint with the European Commission over Apple’s App Store policies, arguing that they unfairly stifle competition.Apple and Google would argue that their fees are justified, because operating an app store requires hiring reviewers and security teams and all kinds of other expenses. But these companies have monopoly control of their own mobile universes, and they have used that power to set up virtual tollbooths that suck billions of dollars a year out of the pockets of smaller competitors.Don’t get lured into a censorship debate. Something bizarre happened on Monday when Facebook momentarily took down several of Ms. Warren’s Facebook ads promoting her proposal to break up big tech. Ms. Warren seized on the episode, saying it was proof of Facebook’s ability to “shut down a debate” over its power.The ads were quickly reinstated, and Facebook made it clear that the removal was not a case of politically motivated censorship. The company has a longstanding policy that limits the use of Facebook’s name in ads, a measure that is mostly meant to prevent sketchy advertisers from claiming falsely to be “Facebook’s official quiz game” or whatever.But the idea that Facebook would censor one of its prominent critics was irresistible to politicians, including Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, and other conservative lawmakers who have spent the past several years complaining that social media platforms are engaging in partisan censorship.“She’s right — Big Tech has way too much power to silence Free Speech,” Mr. Cruz wrote of Ms. Warren in a message on Twitter.One problem with the debate over the tech companies’ power is that it risks conflating real anti-competitive behavior (like Facebook’s shutting off data access to competitors) with imaginary abuses (like Mr. Cruz’s unsupported claims that social media platforms are biased against conservatives). The former is a real menace; the latter is a bad-faith attempt to work the refs and preserve a partisan advantage. But in political discourse, both can be framed as proof of the need for “neutral platforms.”The best advice I could possibly give Ms. Warren, or any other Democrat hoping to bring big tech to heel, is to focus squarely on competition, and to avoid being sucked into partisan debates about content censorship.The worst outcome of a push to regulate big tech companies would be a set of rules that made it easier for people to exploit these companies’ power, while leaving their fortresses intact.Kevin Roose is a columnist for Business and a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. His column, “The Shift,” examines the intersection of technology, business and culture. @kevinroose • FacebookAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with deadly storms in the Southeast, a crucial vote to oppose President Trump’s national emergency declaration, and a potential deal in trade negotiations with China.A cluster of storms ripped through the Southeast on Sunday, leaving a trail of destruction that stretched into Florida and Georgia.All of the reported deaths in Alabama were in Lee County, on the border with Georgia. The county’s sheriff said today that the number of people missing was in the double digits.Related: Intense cold weather in the Rockies and Midwest is expected to spread east today, and one meteorologist warned of an “all-week cold snap” for much of the country. Schools were closed in New York City, where a storm that had been expected to dump 10 inches of snow overnight had moved out by early this morning. Here’s the latest.On the U.S. border with Mexico, migrant women and girls are often the victims of sexual assaults that go unreported, uninvestigated and unprosecuted. Their attackers often threaten to expose their immigration status — or worse — if they report an assault.President Trump has used the violence to make his case for a border wall. The Times spoke with eight women from Central America who were sexually assaulted between 2013 and 2016 about their experiences.Yesterday: Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky said he would support a resolution to block Mr. Trump’s attempt to use emergency powers to fund a border wall. Mr. Paul became the fourth Republican senator to back the measure, appearing to give it the necessary support to pass. Mr. Trump has said he would veto it.From The Times: Our new email newsletter, Crossing the Border, brings you the stories of some of the millions who live along the border. Read the latest one and sign up.More than 440 rural nursing homes have closed or merged in the past decade, according to a group that tracks long-term care. But instead of finding new care in their communities, many patients go to different homes far from their families.Some facilities were forced to close after failing to meet health and safety standards, but far more have collapsed for financial reasons, including health care policies that encourage people to choose independent and assisted living or to stay in their own homes with help from caregivers.Quotable: “How often have you heard somebody say, ‘If I go to a nursing home, just shoot me?’” said Stephen Monroe, a researcher who tracks aging in America. “In the rural areas, you don’t have options.”The challenges faced by the country’s armed forces were evident after one of its aging aircraft was shot down by Pakistan last week. A majority of the Indian Army’s equipment is so old that it’s officially “vintage.”The U.S. has been determined to strengthen its alliance with India to counter China’s regional ambitions. But officials in New Delhi say it’s difficult to funnel money toward the military when they are struggling to improve citizens’ lives in the most basic of ways.Catch up: Several civilians were killed over the weekend during intense shelling along the disputed border between India and Pakistan. The violence came after Pakistan handed over a captured Indian pilot on Friday.Perspective: The author of a memoir about the conflict in Kashmir argues in an Op-Ed that India and Pakistan share responsibility for reducing the region to a ruin.In 2007, Amazon started spending to build a TV and film portfolio, and Mr. Bezos, its founder, became a  powerful presence on the red carpet. Eventually, he and the Hollywood insider Lauren Sanchez, pictured with him above, began an affair that splashed over The National Enquirer. Now, he has effectively ceded control of his narrative to two feuding figures who are prolonging the scandal’s news value: his A-list security consultant and Ms. Sanchez’s fame-hungry brother-manager. U.S.-China trade talks: An agreement that would roll back tariffs on both sides may do little to achieve the substantive changes to China’s economy that the Trump administration initially sought, according to people with knowledge of the talks.Awaiting a return to Caracas: Juan Guaidó plans to re-enter Venezuela today after leaving more than a week ago to rally support for his efforts to oust President Nicolás Maduro. Mr. Guaidó risks being arrested, but his absence has sapped the momentum of his opposition movement. Trump at CPAC: President Trump said on Saturday that he planned to issue an executive order that would help guarantee free speech at colleges and universities. He made the remarks at the annual Conservative Political Action Conference, and we fact-checked his speech.The 2020 election: John Hickenlooper, the former governor of Colorado known for being socially progressive and pro-business, today became the latest Democrat to launch a presidential campaign. No charges in Sacramento shooting: Two police officers who shot and killed an unarmed black man in his grandmother’s backyard last year will not face criminal prosecution. The death of Stephon Clark touched off waves of protests. “Leaving Neverland”: The first episode of HBO’s documentary about the allegations of child sexual abuse against Michael Jackson aired Sunday night. Here are key points from Part One. (Part Two is tonight, although it’s already available online.) Snapshot: Above, Carnival celebrations on Sunday at the Sambódromo, a purpose-built stadium in Rio de Janeiro where thousands of performers appear each year. What we’re reading: This essay in the London Review of Books. Michael Roston, an editor on the Science desk, writes: “‘Finally reached the end of the internet,’ goes a joke once told about being online too much. This article by Patricia Lockwood, the poet, memoirist and all-around interesting thinker, is kind of about an end of the internet. I’ll only ruin it if I try to say more.”Cook: Start the week with a bracing, spicy vegetarian mapo tofu.Watch: “Barry” and “Russian Doll” are among the new TV shows that try to re-instill basic lessons in human decency.See: Jasper Johns’s latest show, “Recent Paintings & Works on Paper,” at Matthew Marks Gallery in Manhattan, is optimistic, despite concluding with a room full of skeletons.Listen: Adia Victoria, a 32-year-old songwriter who grew up in South Carolina, likes to call herself a “modern blues woman.”Smarter Living: If you’re supporting a loved one who is a survivor of sexual abuse or assault, it’s best to simply listen, not to pressure them into telling their story. Let them know that you’re open to hearing whatever they want to share, and above all that you believe them.We also have guidance on becoming a “digital nomad,” earning a living while seeing the world.On Tuesday, the end of the women’s ready-to-wear season in Paris, the last of Karl Lagerfeld’s enormous sets for Chanel will be revealed — the final gesture of a man who shaped fashion as we know it. He died on Feb. 19.Though many designers have created dramatic shows — most notably Alexander McQueen, John Galliano and Thom Browne — none reached the extremes of Mr. Lagerfeld. He once imported (and then returned) a Swedish iceberg, had a rocket launch and created a sandy beach with real surf — all within the glass-roofed confines of the Grand Palais in Paris.Though I was never as big a fan of these fantasy moments as many of my peers (I believed the money could be better spent elsewhere, like on a charitable foundation), they were the markers of a time that is coming to a close, symbols of a vision that bridged the couture and Instagram eras.Get ready for the farewell hurrah. Given that Mr. Lagerfeld never did anything by half measures, it is bound to be a doozy.We end with the latest installment of the Times’s copy editing quiz. Because nothing says Monday morning like a grammar test.See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Vanessa Friedman, the chief fashion critic at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. Follow her on Twitter for live updates from this week’s show. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about what to expect as the special counsel, Robert Mueller, prepares to submit his report.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Kind of bean mentioned by Hannibal Lecter (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The New York Times has been publishing T, a fashion and design magazine, since 2004. @tmagazine has 796,000 followers on Instagram. Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Monday. Weather: Cloudy and chilly, with highs in the upper 30s. Tomorrow, a gusty barrage of snow, sleet and freezing rain — up to 3 inches of it.Alternate-side parking: In effect today, suspended tomorrow for Lincoln’s Birthday. A correction: On Friday, because of an editing error, we wrote that it would be suspended today. It is not — our apologies. Now move your car!Fewer than 100 days ago, the deal to bring Amazon to New York City seemed inevitable. Last week, it seemed almost on the brink of collapse.What happened?To get caught up, here’s a recap of events that led us to where we are now.Nov. 5: Word of the deal surfaces. Gov. Andrew Cuomo jokes that he would change his name to “Amazon Cuomo” to bring the company here.Nov. 12: Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez tweets about her opposition to the plan.Nov. 13 An official deal is announced. The company, owned by Jeff Bezos, the richest man in the world, would get nearly $3 billion in public subsidies to expand here. Plus a helipad.Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio make it sound as if no other real government approval was needed.Critics mobilize.Nov. 14: An image of Mr. Bezos laughing as he holds bags of money in a flying helicopter appears on the front page of The New York Post. The headline is “Queens Ransom.”Nov. 15: The Post follows up with a story headlined “Why Amazon tech bros will ruin the NYC dating scene.”Dec. 12: Amazon executives testify at a City Council hearing and get berated by lawmakers.Jan. 30: At another City Council hearing, an Amazon executive says something that sounds like a veiled threat to pull out of the deal.Feb. 4: State Senator Michael Gianaris, a critic of the project, is selected for a state board that has veto power over the deal.Feb. 5: In a radio interview, Mr. Cuomo says, “I think if Amazon pulled out” it would be “a dramatic blow to not just the economy but also the reputation” of New York. If Amazon is “going somewhere else, the people will follow,” the governor added.Feb. 8: The Washington Post, citing “two people familiar with the company’s thinking,” reports that Amazon is considering withdrawing from New York.But The Times reports that “two people with direct knowledge of the company’s thinking said the article had gone too far and Amazon had no plans to back out.”Jail’s troubles are nothing new: The Metropolitan Detention Center in Brooklyn has a checkered history.How the misery at the jail galvanized protesters and led to action.A pied-à-terre tax: New York lawmakers may be more receptive to it after the hedge fund billionaire Kenneth C. Griffin bought a penthouse for $238 million.Before her body was found in a suitcase, a young woman told her mother she feared for her safety.A mother is killed: A woman who had tried to help her mentally ill son for years was brutally murdered by him, the police said.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.Bad data about day care centers: Information on city websites is incomplete or inaccurate. [New York Post]Noose photos labeled “back-to-school necklaces” in a middle-school classroom on Long Island. People are mad. [News 12 Long Island] $1.4 million in raises: More than 200 women and people of color working at New Jersey Transit got salary increases under a new pay-equity law. [Wall Street Journal]Clothing inspired by tabloid newspapers. Who’s making fashion headlines? [Daily News and New York Post]Would Democrats let a colleague’s district disappear? Representative Ocasio-Cortez said her district could be heavily redrawn after the 2020 census. [The Intercept]“I think that it is not a good agreement for Nycha and for the city.” — Stanley Brezenoff, the departing interim chairman and chief executive of the New York City Housing Authority, on the recent deal between the city and federal housing officials.Not for cat people: The 143rd Westminster Dog Show’s Masters Obedience Championship at Pier 94. 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. [$35]Rare footage of the American dancer-choreographer Merce Cunningham at the Public Library for the Performing Arts. 6 p.m. [Free]A panel on the history of black businesses at the Brooklyn Historical Society. 6 p.m. [$5]Oskar Eustis, artistic director of the Public Theater and “Hamilton” producer, chats with Bill T. Jones at New York Live Arts. 7 p.m. [$10]— Elisha Brown Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Forty years have passed since Curtis Sliwa first put on a red jacket and beret and started patrolling New York City’s streets and subways with the vigilante group he founded, the Guardian Angels.A lot has changed. New York City got safer and gentrified. Mr. Sliwa got older and makes a living as a radio host.Some things haven’t changed. Mr. Sliwa still wears the red jacket and beret nearly every day.In honor of the group’s anniversary, a documentary called “Vigilante” is being rereleased this month. And a graphic novel is coming too.Also, for a limited time starting Wednesday, the group is selling clothing. The Guardian Angels partnered with a Manhattan clothing company on T-shirts ($40), sweatshirts ($80), hats ($40) and a set of three enameled pins ($12).Some apparel has the group’s logo. Some has the word “vigilante.” A quarter of the revenue will go to the Guardian Angels, who do less patrolling and more community organizing these days.But who will buy it? In today’s New York the concerns are more about too much policing, rather than a lack of it. And if you’re on the A train wearing a hat that says “vigilante,” what kind of message does that send?Michael Casarella, the chief executive of Barking Irons, the clothing company partnering on the apparel, said in an email, “The Guardian Angels stand for taking an active role in your community, big or small. They were fiercely egalitarian and democratic when it came to gender, creed, and background.”The lasting message of the organization, he said, “was and always has been: Don’t be a passive bystander. Activism begins with taking a stand.”As for the word “vigilante” on the apparel, Mr. Casarella said, “People are going to bring their associations to a word no matter what.”He added: “Vigilante, in this context, is about overcoming the ways people will diminish and dismiss what they do not understand.”On Friday evening, I ran into Mr. Sliwa on the train. He was wearing his trademark jacket and beret. I asked him about the vigilante slogan and the message it might send. He said the root of the word is “vigilance,” and that’s something that never goes out of style.It’s Monday — make a statement.Dear Diary:I was headed to work on a downtown No. 1. I was standing in the middle of the car.At 125th Street, a woman in the seat in front of me turned to the man sitting next to her.“I loved that book,” she said.He turned to her and smiled. They began to talk about the book and about the movie adaptation. She pulled a book out of her bag to show him what she was reading.I wondered whether they knew each other. Then they shook hands and introduced themselves. I checked their left hands. No rings.The train continued on. By now, they were laughing. Their shoulders were touching. It was like the beginning to a romantic comedy, a real-life meet-cute.We got to 72nd Street, and they were still chatting away. Would this be the last time they spoke?The train approached 59th Street.“Maybe I could give you my number and we can talk some more?” the man said.They exchanged phones, saving each other’s contact information.I got off at 50th Street. It was no longer just a regular day.— Alliana SemjenNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Vivian Wang[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]ALBANY — New York lawmakers on Thursday passed a bill to outlaw “revenge porn,” a practice that victims say can alter their lives as drastically as any other form of abuse, but from which there are few of the same protections.The bill’s passage was long awaited, and for many victims, long overdue.In an era of social media ubiquity and the permanence of the internet, revenge porn, the nonconsensual sharing of sexually explicit photos or videos, has emerged as an increasingly potent weapon. The images can follow victims for years, turning up when employers or romantic partners search for their names on the internet.Forty-one states have already outlawed revenge porn, as have Washington, D.C., New York City and several counties, including Nassau County.But in New York, victims told of years of helplessness. Prosecutors could not charge offenders for a practice that was not illegal, and judges turned down appeals for help on the grounds of free speech, even as other states moved to shore up protections.“I went to the police, and they told me there was nothing they could do. I went to Family Court, and the judge there told me that I had a First Amendment problem,” said Carrie Goldberg, a victims’ rights lawyer who was in Albany for the bill’s passage.She said she had started her firm after being the victim of revenge porn herself. Her harasser sent her emails containing explicit photos of herself and told her that he had blind copied her colleagues on the message, she said.“My clients describe it as an inescapable nightmare, and it is,” Ms. Goldberg said.In a sign of how quickly the landscape has changed, when New York’s bill was first introduced five years ago, it was a trailblazer; only a handful of other states had criminalized revenge porn. By the time the bill finally passed the State Legislature on Thursday, New York was a laggard.Under the new state proposal, which Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo has said he supports, offenders could be punished by up to one year in jail.The law would also allow victims to sue the person who had shared the revenge porn, which about a dozen other states permit. And it would be the first in the nation to allow judges to order websites or social media platforms — in addition to the original poster — to take down the photos or videos.The push to end revenge porn comes amid twin movements across the country: growing acknowledgment of sexual harassment and abuse, and an emerging conversation about what government’s role should be in regulating social media.While some of the highest-profile instances of sexual images as blackmail or revenge have involved the rich and famous — Jeff Bezos, Jennifer Lawrence and Rihanna for example — it has affected millions of people, from middle school students to Marines. As many as 10 million Americans have been victims of revenge porn, according to the Data and Society Research Institute, a think tank.“Revenge porn is not infrequent, nor is it just a celebrity issue,” said Senator Monica R. Martinez, a Long Island Democrat and one of the bill’s sponsors. “Our laws have yet to catch up with technology.”The bill had passed the Democrat-dominated Assembly last year but was opposed by technology companies and business groups, which worried that they could be held liable for content shared on their platforms.The proposal died in the Republican-controlled Senate. But Democrats won the Senate in November, paving the way for the bill’s passage.The bill would follow federal law in granting social media platforms and other websites some immunity from financial liability, holding only the person who posted the media responsible. Websites would still be required to take down any material if ordered by a judge.Minors would also be held responsible under the law, but they would appear before a Family Court judge, Ms. Martinez said. Some critics had worried that the law could send teenagers to jail.Most major social media platforms already have policies in place around revenge porn. But the bill would add an extra layer of accountability, said Lindsey Song, a lawyer with Sanctuary for Families, a group that advocates for survivors of gender-based violence.“Some of these major companies just have so much content,” she said. “Sometimes, unfortunately, victims of domestic violence and trafficking just don’t get to be a priority.”On Thursday, the Internet Association, an industry group that represents tech giants including Google, Twitter, Facebook and Snapchat, said it supported criminalizing revenge porn but still expressed concerns with the bill.“While the industry continues to have reservations about the bill, it is important for New York State” to pass the bill “so that victims of these horrific actions will have the ability to hold bad actors to account,” John Olsen, the association’s director of state government affairs for the Northeast region, said in a statement.The statement did not specify what those reservations were.Ms. Goldberg celebrated the bill’s passage on Thursday, her voice often shaking, even as she lamented the years in which she and countless others had suffered from its delay.“I’ve prepared to give this speech five times over five years,” she said at a news conference promoting the bill. “Sexual privacy is just a fundamental right.”Follow Vivian Wang on Twitter: @vwang3Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. President Trump faces tests of his political survival, the U.S. government shutdown has become the country’s longest in history, and the Greek prime minister calls for a confidence vote. Here’s the latest: The shift of power in Congress and news reports are combining to confront President Trump with the prospect of a political war for survival “that may make the still-unresolved partial government shutdown pale by comparison,” our chief White House correspondent writes.News reports: A Times report detailed how, after Mr. Trump fired James Comey as F.B.I. director, the bureau became so concerned by the president’s behavior that investigators took the aggressive step of opening a counterintelligence inquiry into whether he had been working on behalf of Russia. That inquiry was taken over by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, when he was appointed.And The Washington Post first reported that the president had gone to great lengths to conceal his conversations with President Vladimir Putin of Russia over the past two years. Current and former officials told our reporters that this practice has caused anxiety within Mr. Trump’s own administration.Congress: Democrats in the House of Representatives might move to subpoena interpreters present at the meetings. And on Tuesday, they will grill former Attorney General William Barr, who has been nominated by Mr. Trump to assume his old office, about his approach to the special counsel. Next month, they’ll question Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen, and they cautioned Mr. Trump against any attempt to influence or discourage his testimony. The response: Mr. Trump attacked the F.B.I. and its former top officials on Twitter over news of the counterintelligence investigation and denied The Post’s report.The partial shutdown is now the longest-ever gap in American government funding, surpassing the previous record of 21 days under the Clinton administration.President Trump is still digging in on his demand for money for a wall at the southern border, though he has backed away from declaring a national emergency to build one — which has been seen as the only way out of the impasse with House Democrats. Meanwhile, a new caravan of migrants is forming in Honduras and promises to further charge the debate.Impact: Here’s a visual look at the shutdown’s far-reaching consequences for the 800,000 federal workers who are going without pay.Another angle: The British Parliament is all but certain to vote down Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan on Tuesday, leaving the country’s withdrawal from the E.U. mired in uncertainty. Our journalists examine how the crises afflicting two venerable, historic democracies can affect the whole world. Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras of Greece called for a confidence vote after a coalition partner on the right quit over a proposed pact on Macedonia’s name.What happened: Days ago, Macedonian lawmakers agreed to officially change their country’s name to the Republic of North Macedonia, in order to end a long-running dispute with Greece and open the door for the small Balkan nation’s membership in NATO and the E.U. But the deal infuriated the Greek defense minister, prompting him to resign. History: Greece has long effectively blocked Macedonia from NATO, insisting that Macedonians were a Hellenistic people and therefore the name could not be claimed by the Slavic people living in the country today. Many Greeks believe that the new name implies claims to Greek territory, because Greece has a northern region named Macedonia.What’s next? The confidence vote is expected to be held this week, after two days of debate from Tuesday morning.  The deal on the name could go before the Greek Parliament for approval as soon as this month. Boulogne-sur-Mer, France’s largest fishing port, has been spooked by a surge in attempted and even successful thefts of fishing boats. The culprits are migrant smugglers. They are increasingly secreting migrants, mainly Iranians who can afford the high costs, across the English Channel to Britain in small vessels, some of them stolen. Numbers: Last year, there were 78 crossings and attempts to cross the Channel, involving a total of about 500 migrants — 10 times as many as in 2017. More than half made it across. No one is known to have died so far, but there is fear that a fatality is inevitable. Impact: The relatively small numbers notwithstanding, headlines and anti-immigration politicians in Britain are calling it a crisis. Some French fishermen are vowing to sit up all night in their boats, cradling their guns. Huawei: The Chinese telecommunications giant fired an employee who was arrested in Poland on charges of spying for Beijing, the latest diplomatic tangle for the company after the arrest of its chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, in Canada last year.Poland: The left-leaning mayor of Gdansk was stabbed in the heart on Sunday night while he spoke at a fund-raiser by an assailant with political grievances, officials said.Afghanistan: Dozens of boys are imprisoned in Kabul as national security threats, many of them accused of trying to become suicide bombers. What to do with them when they finish their sentences is a conundrum for the authorities.Nissan: In 1991, the Japanese automaker created a small batch of the quirky Figaro model and never even exported it out of the country. But today, it enjoys immense popularity in Britain.Paris: Four people were killed in a powerful explosion at a bakery that is believed to have been caused by a gas leak.Syria: The U.S. military started withdrawing some equipment as part of President Trump’s order to wind down America’s presence there, amid growing confusion and mixed signals over the pullout.Iran: Senior Pentagon officials are afraid that President Trump’s hawkish national security adviser, John Bolton, could precipitate a conflict with Iran at a time when Mr. Trump is losing leverage in the Middle East.Saudi Arabia: The young Saudi woman who fled her family and spent a week lobbying for her freedom from Bangkok’s international airport arrived safely in Canada, where she was granted asylum. Who is MacKenzie Bezos? A novelist who, as the wife of Jeff Bezos, played an integral part in getting Amazon started. And now, after 25 years of marriage, she could be awarded one of the largest divorce settlements to date.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Start the week with a comforting bowl of Tuscan farro soup.How to be a writer: There’s no shortage of advice from famous authors, from J.K. Rowling to William Faulkner.Never miss another supermoon. Or solar eclipse, or meteor shower. Sync your calendar with the solar system.On Wall Street, it’s “earnings season.”Before your eyes glaze over, here’s what that means — and why it’s more interesting than usual.We’re about to see how corporate America did in the past three months.It’s the first chance for investors to hear from chief executives since the market went haywire in December. A big reason for that sell-off was concern about the economy and corporate profits.In the “preseason,” Apple warned that fewer people in China were buying iPhones than it would like, and American Airlines said it wasn’t getting as much revenue from every passenger as it wanted.Such details help gauge the health of the economy, and that’s where the trouble can begin. If too many chief executives start to warn about problems ahead, investors could see their worst fears confirmed — and stocks could start to fall again.Maybe don’t check your 401(k) until this is over.Mohammed Hadi, our business news director, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. President Trump’s impending political war, China’s aggressive ambitions in Africa, and Nissan’s unexpected popularity in Britain. Here’s the latest: The shift of power in Congress and news reports are combining to confront President Trump with the prospect of a protracted and intense political war for survival “that may make the still-unresolved partial government shutdown pale by comparison,” writes our chief White House correspondent.News reports: A Times report detailed how, after Mr. Trump fired James Comey as F.B.I. director, the bureau became so concerned by the president’s behavior that they took the aggressive step of opening a counterintelligence inquiry into whether he had been working on behalf of Russia.And The Washington Post reported that the president had taken extensive steps to conceal his conversations with Russia’s President Vladimir Putin over the past two years.Congress: Democrats in the House will, on Tuesday, grill former Attorney General William Barr, who has been nominated by Mr. Trump to assume his old office, about his approach to the special counsel, Robert Mueller. Next month, they’ll question Mr. Trump’s former personal lawyer, Michael Cohen.The response: Mr. Trump attacked the F.B.I. and its former top officials on Twitter over news of the investigation and denied The Post’s report.The partial shutdown is now the longest ever gap in American government funding, surpassing the previous record of 21 days under the Clinton administration in 1995.President Trump is still digging in on his demand for money for a wall at the southern border, though he has backed away from declaring a national emergency. House Democrats refuse to accede.Impact: Here’s a visual look at the shutdown’s far-reaching consequences for the 800,000 federal workers who are going without pay.The roots: Decisions made in the 1970s helped lay the groundwork for today’s dysfunction.Another angle: The British Parliament is all but certain to vote down Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan on Tuesday, leaving the country’s withdrawal from the E.U. mired in uncertainty. Our journalists examine how the crises afflicting two venerable, historic democracies can impact the whole world. China’s investments in Africa are central to President Xi Jinping’s Belt and Road initiative. The Trump administration sees it as an aggressive debt-trap scheme aimed at extending Beijing’s political influence around the world.Case study: In 2016, an American consortium of oil and gas executives from General Electric put in a bid to build a $4 billion oil refinery in Uganda that could be the largest in East Africa. It faced long odds against the competition, two Chinese energy companies with deep pockets, Beijing’s support and significant pull with the Ugandan government.Why it matters: The Ugandan case demonstrates the difficulties western governments face as they try to push back against China. In October, the Trump administration set aside $60 billion in financing for global projects — though that is still a fraction of what Beijing has pledged to spend.In Kabul, Afghanistan, dozens of boys are held at a juvenile detention center as national security threats, charged with planting, carrying or making bombs and trying to become suicide bombers.The Times, which was granted exclusive access to the prison a few months ago, found that many bear deep cuts and bruises — some self-inflicted, others from the bombs they are said to have detonated. None admit the full range of the crimes they’re accused of.“The Taliban made me fight for them,” said one. “The local police beat me to force me to confess,” said another.The problem: So far, counseling the boys to steer them away from extremism hasn’t seemed to work. So what are the authorities to do with them at the end of their sentences, when their added years could enable them to cause worse mayhem? Huawei: The Chinese telecommunications giant fired an employee who was arrested in Poland on charges of spying for Beijing, the latest diplomatic tangle for the company after the arrest of its chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, in Canada.Syria: The U.S. military started withdrawing some equipment from the conflict as part of President Trump’s order to wind down America’s presence there, amid growing confusion and mixed signals over the pullout.Saudi Arabia: The young Saudi woman who fled from her family and spent a week lobbying for her freedom from Bangkok’s international airport arrived safely in Canada, where she was granted asylum. Her case has brought the status of Saudi women and the difficulties of escaping the kingdom into sharp focus.From Opinion: U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is in Saudi Arabia to meet with the crown prince and discuss the killing of the dissident Jamal Khashoggi. A Saudi woman living in Belgium argues that Mr. Pompeo should also bring up the fate of jailed female political prisoners — like her own sister.Nissan: In 1991, the Japanese automaker created a small batch of the quirky Figaro model and never even exported it out of the country. But today, it enjoys immense popularity in Britain.Indonesia: A woman who recorded her boss’s lewd phone call was fired and eventually jailed, while his career flourished. The case, whose final appeal is before the Supreme Court, has become a very public example of the country’s lack of sexual harassment protection for women.Who is MacKenzie Bezos? A novelist who, as the wife of Jeff Bezos, played an integral part in getting Amazon started. And now, after 25 years of marriage, she could be awarded one of the largest divorce settlements to date.SpaceX: Elon Musk’s rocket company is cutting 10 percent of its work force in what the company said was preparation for the “extraordinary challenges ahead.” With its remaining 6,000 workers, the company plans to move forward to create space-based internet and launch a capsule to carry NASA astronauts to the International Space Station.Beauty of the beasts: The extravagant splendor in the animal kingdom is pushing biologists to rethink Darwin’s theory of evolution.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Start the week with a comforting bowl of Tuscan farro soup.How to be writer? There’s no shortage of advice from famous writers, from J.K. Rowling to William Faulkner.Never miss another super moon. Or solar eclipse, or meteor shower. Sync your calendar with the solar system.On Wall Street, it’s “earnings season.”Before your eyes glaze over, here’s what that means — and why it’s more interesting than usual.We’re about to see how corporate America did in the past three months.It’s the first chance for investors to hear from chief executives since the market went haywire in December. A big reason for that sell-off was concern about the economy and corporate profits.In the “preseason,” Apple warned that fewer people in China were buying iPhones than it would like, and American Airlines said it wasn’t getting as much revenue from every passenger as it wanted.Such details help gauge the health of the economy, and that’s where the trouble can begin. If too many chief executives start to warn about problems ahead, investors could see their worst fears confirmed — and stocks could start to fall again.Maybe don’t check your 401(k) until this is over.Mohammed Hadi, our business news director, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ken BelsonTwo Fridays ago, Robert K. Kraft, the owner of the New England Patriots, was in Los Angeles, one of his homes away from home.He started the day at Nate and Al’s, the Beverly Hills delicatessen where he occasionally dines with friends, including Larry King and Steve Tisch, the co-owner of the Giants. Later that day, he was supposed to play golf with Al Michaels, the longtime host of “Sunday Night Football.”Kraft never made it to the first tee at the Bel-Air Country Club. During the morning he received word that the police 2,600 miles away in Florida were charging him with two counts of soliciting a prostitute at a massage parlor in Jupiter. Since then, authorities have revealed that Kraft is one of hundreds of men facing solicitation charges as part of a case that also encompasses suspected human trafficking in South Florida.[Read more: Behind Illicit Massage Parlors Lie a Vast Crime Network and Modern Indentured Servitude]Suddenly, Kraft’s off-season, and perhaps his status as one of the most influential N.F.L. owners, had been turned upside down.It is telling that he received the news while in Los Angeles, the capital of the entertainment industry. In the quarter-century since he bought the Patriots, Kraft has been at the center of countless business decisions affecting the league, from labor agreements to franchise sales to the commissioner’s compensation. But Kraft has also left his mark by forming friendships with the leaders of the media companies that pay billions of dollars to televise N.F.L. games.Those contracts account for about half of the N.F.L.’s estimated $14 billion annual revenue. As the chairman of the league’s media committee, Kraft has become the N.F.L.’s seemingly indispensable owner, as anyone who holds that position usually is, and he has been expert at getting networks like CBS and Fox to pay previously unimaginable rights fees, and making them feel as if they were lucky to do so.“He is a clever negotiator,” said David Hill, the former chairman of Fox Sports. “He could look at what the broadcaster needed and gauge what they felt they could pay but still leave something on the table so you don’t feel like you were gouged.”Now Kraft may have compromised his stature within that most exclusive of American business clubs. In addition to any league punishment, he faces up to one year in jail, a $5,000 fine and 100 hours of community service — though since this would be a first-time offense, prosecutors said, he is unlikely to spend any time behind bars if convicted.On Feb. 25, Kraft pleaded not guilty to the misdemeanor charges. A date in court, where he is likely to be represented by his lawyer, is scheduled for March 27.Kraft’s behavior has come under scrutiny before. He has admitted to meddling in football decisions and alienating his coaches in his early years of owning the Patriots. In 2008, he apologized after his team was fined $250,000 and lost a first-round draft pick because of allegations in 2007 that the Patriots videotaped their opponent’s offensive or defensive signals. Coach Bill Belichick was fined $500,000. In 2013, Kraft claimed he was “duped” by Aaron Hernandez, the Patriots tight end who was convicted of murder and later killed himself in prison.In ownership circles, Kraft is known to act as a kind of shadow commissioner, forming close relationships with sponsors, vendors, media companies and even the N.F.L. Players Association, and pursuing back-channel communications that can sometimes circumvent his fellow owners and league officials.His influence, though, has limits. Many owners tolerate Kraft’s freelancing because he gets results and tries to keep other owners in the loop. But their tolerance runs thin when his team is accused of wrongdoing, as happened in the Spygate scandal and in 2015, when the Patriots were accused of deflating footballs before the A.F.C. championship game. In those cases, owners were not unhappy when the commissioner penalized the team.Numerous former and current league executives and Kraft’s ownership brethren declined to comment on the record for this article, as did Kraft. Even privately, many of them were reluctant to criticize him for the solicitation charges, which they consider a personal matter.It is possible, though, that the arrest could diminish Kraft’s standing among the owners just as his skill sets and relationships are needed.The league’s television contracts are up for renewal in two years, and the N.F.L. would like new players like Amazon to jump into the fray. Negotiations are likely to be complicated as the league and networks figure out how to value rights for streaming and other new technology. Kraft lost a major ally in Leslie Moonves, his longtime friend, who was forced to step down as chief executive of CBS in September after more than a dozen women accused him of sexual misconduct.If Kraft is concerned about his own allegations, he is not showing it. While he has not spoken publicly about the charges, which the police said stem from video recordings of him, Kraft has been seen in public, including at a pre-Oscars brunch on Feb. 23 where he was photographed with Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder and chief executive.When Kraft returned to Boston the next day, he was spotted hugging Patriots quarterback Tom Brady after they got off a private jet.Amid the solicitation case in Florida, it is unclear how involved Kraft will be in league business in the coming months. The N.F.L. is preparing not only for talks with television networks but also for negotiations with the players’ union, whose contract expires at the end of next season. Kraft also sits on the finance and compensation committees, and the management council, which represents the league in labor talks.Kraft can be an affable but cunning negotiator, and both his business and people skills were hard to miss in 2011 during negotiations over the collective bargaining agreement. Several owners pushed the league to take a hard line and exploit their leverage over the players’ union after a court ruling in their favor, but Kraft was among a contingent of owners leading negotiations in Washington who saw an opening to push the talks across the finish line. While Kraft shuttled back and forth to Boston, where his wife, Myra, was dying of ovarian cancer, he maintained a direct line of communication with leaders of the players’ union.After the two sides reached a deal, Jeff Saturday, a member of the union’s executive committee, thanked Kraft. “Without him, this deal does not get done,” he said at the time.ESPN, where Saturday works, said he was not available for an interview. But nearly all of Kraft’s associates contacted for this article said Kraft was a careful listener who asked questions and had a knack for proposing solutions. While he does have a temper, they said, he rarely loses it.Kraft has spoken often about the need to put league matters over personal ones. In November 2017, he was interviewed with his oldest son, Jonathan, onstage at a sports industry conference in New York. In a thinly veiled criticism of Jerry Jones, the Cowboys’ owner, Kraft urged owners to act as partners and not perceive themselves as “bigger than the league itself.” Jones had threatened to sue Kraft and other owners who wanted to extend Commissioner Roger Goodell’s contract.“It’s more important,” Kraft said, “that the people running the league do the right thing for the league than for any one franchise.”Mark Leibovich contributed reporting from Washington.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike Isaac and Kate CongerSAN FRANCISCO — When Logan Green, chief executive of the ride-hailing service Lyft, was asked which tech leaders he admired, he pointed to three men who had built their companies ruthlessly: Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos.“A lot of other Silicon Valley companies are very scared to get their hands dirty with operations,” Mr. Green said in a 2017 interview with The New York Times, adding that he wanted to emulate the take-no-prisoners methods of Mr. Musk, Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Bezos.The problem for Mr. Green is that Lyft seems very nice. Its app is pink. Its cars were once adorned with fuzzy bubblegum-colored mustaches. Its drivers have a reputation for being friendly. And while Lyft has racked up more than one billion rides and become a strong No. 2 to Uber in the United States and Canada, it has not shaken off its cuddly image.Now Mr. Green, 35, must show that Lyft can be as assertive as an Amazon or a Facebook. He and Uber are locked in a race to take their companies public: Both filed papers in December to list on the stock market in the coming months. The offerings — the first for any ride-hailing firm — are likely to create a bonanza of riches in Silicon Valley and set the stage for listings of other highly valued tech start-ups, including Slack and Pinterest.The pressure is on Mr. Green to get the jump on Uber. (Both offerings have been stalled because the government shutdown, which ended Friday, prevented the Securities and Exchange Commission from reviewing their filings.) Lyft, which was last privately valued at $15.1 billion, is tiny compared with its rival and could be overshadowed if Uber debuts first. Uber could go public at a $120 billion valuation.For Mr. Green, this means he may have to give up some up his reserve and step into a more public role. While Lyft’s more gregarious president, John Zimmer, his No. 2 for the last 12 years, has frequently handled the public-facing side of the business, Mr. Green would rather speak at staff meetings than at tech conferences. Colleagues describe him as reserved.In a 2017 interview, Mr. Zimmer said Mr. Green was often misunderstood because of his quiet demeanor. “He is, like, extremely competitive,” Mr. Zimmer, now 34, said. “He has been an activist.”Lyft declined to make Mr. Green or Mr. Zimmer available for new interviews, citing the quiet period before an initial public offering. In a statement, the chief operating officer, Jon McNeill, described them as “cutthroat missionaries in service of creating positive change.”One of the tech leaders Mr. Green cited as inspiration, Mr. Musk, recommended against taking Lyft public.“The current system makes long-term value creation and product innovation difficult,” Mr. Musk, chief executive of Tesla, wrote in an email last week. “It insists on quarter-by-quarter results or punishes companies severely. This is particularly bad for companies that are high growth and are valued on potential, like Lyft (or Tesla).” (The S.E.C. fined Mr. Musk  last year for a tweet about taking Tesla private.)Mr. Green, who was born and raised in Culver City, Calif., graduated from the University of California, Santa Barbara, in 2006 with a degree in business economics. He then worked as the university’s sustainability coordinator, poring over alternatives to the gas-guzzling one-car-per-owner model. He was also on the board of the Santa Barbara Metropolitan Transit District, a position that gave him insight into municipal transportation.While visiting Zimbabwe on vacation during his 20s, Mr. Green said in the 2017 interview, he was inspired by Zimbabweans who had created makeshift services to fill every seat in car pools, saving passengers money and taking cars off the road.So in 2007, Mr. Green started Zimride in Santa Barbara, Calif., to provide long-distance car-pool rides to college students by matching them with other students who were driving.Mr. Zimmer, then working at Lehman Brothers, noticed posts about the start-up on Facebook from John Siegel, whom he had met while studying abroad and who had attended middle school with Mr. Green.“John didn’t have this technical or programming background, but he was this really impressive guy,” Mr. Siegel said. “I thought they could work together well.”Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer, who remained in New York, embarked on what Mr. Zimmer called a “long-distance relationship,” working together over Skype. In 2008, they moved to a two-bedroom apartment in Palo Alto, Calif. Neither drew a salary in the first three years of building Zimride, and each contract they sold to a college was celebrated with a trip to Ikea for Swedish meatballs, Mr. Zimmer said.In 2011, Zimride raised $6 million. But as a web service, it was caught flat-footed by the rise of smartphones and mobile apps. In 2012, Mr. Green decided to spin out of Zimride a mobile, peer-to-peer ride-hailing service, calling it Lyft.Instead of just pairing students for long-distance rides, Lyft would put drivers together with riders on public streets, in real time. Mr. Zimmer came up with the idea to emblazon the cars with pink mustaches; Mr. Green encouraged passengers to greet their drivers with a fist bump, to keep the community feeling of Zimride.At the time, ride-hailing wasn’t legal, and only licensed drivers could pick up passengers on public streets. Ann Miura-Ko, a partner at the venture capital firm Floodgate, who had invested in Zimride and sits on Lyft’s board, recalled that some board members had been doubtful about the change — but that Mr. Green had been confident.“Someone asked, ‘Will this really work?’ And he wasn’t just sure, he was positive,” she said.But Mr. Green didn’t reckon with one issue: Uber. At the time, Uber, run by Travis Kalanick, had positioned itself as a luxury service for the wealthy that used only licensed drivers, unlike Lyft’s lower-cost service. In 2013, Uber published a white paper outlining the risks of peer-to-peer ride-hailing, a way to elbow Lyft out of the market.“They were trying to get the whole category shut down behind the scenes,” Mr. Green said. “They didn’t want competition.”Uber officials met with California regulators about the matter. As for Mr. Green, several current and former regulators and lawmakers who oversee ride-sharing in California said they had never worked with him, because Mr. Zimmer was often the one who communicated with officials.“Truth be told, I’ve never heard of him,” said Aaron Peskin, a San Francisco supervisor who called for crackdowns on Uber and Lyft in their early years and negotiated a new per-ride tax with Uber and Lyft last summer.Mr. Kalanick eventually moved Uber into non-luxury ride-sharing with no licensed drivers, the same as Lyft. He and Mr. Green quickly became bitter rivals. When Mr. Green was set to introduce Lyft’s car-pooling product in 2014, Uber announced the same service first.That same year, Uber considered buying Lyft. Over dinner at Mr. Kalanick’s home in San Francisco, the Uber chief laughed at Mr. Zimmer’s high asking price. No deal was struck.An Uber spokesman declined to comment. A spokesman for Mr. Kalanick didn’t return a request for comment.While Mr. Kalanick went on to raise billions of dollars in funding for Uber, Mr. Green relied on Mr. Zimmer’s Wall Street knowledge and showman personality to garner investments from venture capitalists and others. In total, Lyft has raised close to $5.1 billion, compared with Uber’s roughly $14 billion in equity.In 2017, Mr. Kalanick was ousted from Uber after a series of scandals. Mr. Green seized the moment, billing Lyft as a kinder, gentler network. Ridership surged, with Lyft taking a share of up to 35 percent in some American cities.More recently, Lyft has ventured into self-driving cars, offering autonomous rides in Las Vegas. It also acquired Motivate, the largest bike-share operator in the United States, giving Lyft a dominant position in an emerging transportation market.In the 2017 interview, Mr. Green said he was far from done.“As an entrepreneur, you always kind of want what you’re pitching to sound somewhat off the wall,” he said. “You’re trying to pitch the future that doesn’t exist, and you want it to be — it needs to be — a little bit of a stretch.”Follow Mike Isaac and Kate Conger on Twitter: @mikeisaac and @kateconger.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump might keep some tariffs on Chinese goods even if Beijing and Washington reach a trade agreement, he told the NYT yesterday, after delegates from both countries wrapped up another round of negotiations.“Without the tariffs, we wouldn’t be talking,” he said in an interview.How were the discussions? According to Mr. Trump’s posts on Twitter, they went well, “with good intent and spirit on both sides.” He hosted the negotiators in the Oval Office and suggested that President Xi Jinping of China was willing to welcome more American companies and to buy more American products — including five million tons of soybeans. The Chinese representatives, led by the American-educated vice premier, Liu He, said that the two sides had made “important progress” and had “candid, specific and fruitful” talks. Robert Lighthizer, the top American trade negotiator, was less sanguine. “We did not come off the rails,” he said. “That’s significant.”What’s next? The two sides hope to reach an agreement by early March, before Mr. Trump plans to increase tariffs after a 90-day truce. Mr. Lighthizer and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will go to Beijing after the Chinese New Year holiday this month to prepare for  talks between the two presidents. Mr. Trump said that summit meeting would happen “in the near future” and that it would address “some of the long standing and more difficult points.” According to Myron Brilliant, the head of international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “we are in the fifth inning of a nine-inning game.” He also used another sports analogy to describe the negotiations:I would now say we are at halftime of the Super Bowl of trade relations.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Facebook’s 35,000 employees got a reminder this week of Apple’s power over their day-to-day routines. So did workers at Google.After Facebook and Google ran afoul of Apple’s rules for distributing apps, Apple hit back by blocking the two Silicon Valley giants from using the internal apps and updates that run on iPhone software.Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, told the NYT that the offending app had not been a secret and had operated with users’ consent. Apple eventually restored access for both Facebook and Google, but its point had been made: Cross us at your peril.The tension with Apple was not Facebook’s only concern.• The social network, in a collaboration with Twitter, said that other countries appeared to be following the Russian playbook for using social media to disseminate propaganda and disinformation. One campaign, from Iran, touched on the conflict in Syria and conspiracy theories about the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Facebook said it had removed 783 pages, groups and accounts with ties to Iran, while Twitter said it had taken down more than 2,000 accounts.• Facebook, already being investigated by the authorities in Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York, is also said to be the target of several more inquiries, including in Connecticut, Illinois and Pennsylvania, over its mishandling of user data.Deutsche has been in a lot of trouble for a very long time. Now, it’s looking increasingly probable that the German government will step in to combine it with its smaller, but also struggling competitor, Commerzbank.Deutsche reported its first full-year net profit since 2014 today but still failed to meet analysts’ expectations. Its fourth quarter showed continued weakness.The bank has lurched through various failed restructuring efforts, has been hit with fine after fine and was recently raided by prosecutors pursuing a money-laundering investigation. Its stock price has more than halved in the past year. If it is unable to recover on its own, it is thought a merger with Commerzbank may occur by midyear.But that may not be wise, writes Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg:The deal looks like the option of last resort. Combining two of Europe’s most inefficient banks to create an even bigger supertanker would require tens of thousands of job cuts and a risky (read costly) integration to stand a chance of working.The Labor Department will release its monthly estimate of hiring and unemployment at 8:30 a.m. But there’s even more uncertainty than usual, writes the NYT’s Ben Casselman. Here’s what to look for:Crucial time: The United States’ decade-long expansion could be nearing its end, and the partial government shutdown has added to those fears. Not all the effects will show up in the jobs data, but they will make the report unusually hard to interpret.Potential impact: There is one place the shutdown will probably show up: the jobless rate. Unemployment could go up by one- or two-tenths of a percentage point.Solid foundation: The job market is strong, however. Claims for unemployment insurance recently hit a nearly 50-year low, and paychecks are growing.Investors looked to earnings reports yesterday from two bellwethers of the U.S. economy: Amazon and General Electric. Both seem to be struggling with growing pains.Stiff competition: The latest quarterly results suggested that Amazon’s retail business not only faced more competition, it was also maturing, as growth slowed from its usual breakneck pace. But the company compensated by expanding its highly profitable cloud and advertising businesses. Its revenue guidance fell short of expectations, sending shares down sharply in after-hours trading.Seeking a turnaround: G.E.’s fourth-quarter results pointed to the depth of the company’s challenges, despite a strong performance by the company’s jet engine business. G.E. made no forecast for what its profit and revenue would look like this year, and its chief executive, Lawrence Culp, said that 2019 was “still very much a work in progress.” The company also said that it had reached a $1.5 billion settlement in an investigation of its role in the 2008 financial crisis, reassuring investors.More earnings news: Nintendo shares dropped more than 9.3 percent after it cut its full-year target for sales of its Switch video game console.Intel named its interim chief executive, Robert Swan, as its permanent leader, ending a seven-month search. (NYT)Symantec said its chief financial officer, Nicholas Noviello, planned to step down in the coming months to pursue other opportunities. (FT)John Brumby, a former Australian lawmaker, retired from the board of the Australian subsidiary of Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant. (FT)Deals• Blackstone and Apollo, two of the biggest private equity firms, recorded sharp declines in profit in the fourth quarter of 2018 after investments were hit by rocky markets. (FT)• Seeking to narrow its focus to consumer appliances, Electrolux plans to spin off a unit that supplies restaurants and hotels with food, beverages and equipment. (FT)• Blackstone said it would buy a controlling stake in Tallgrass Energy, a midstream energy company, for $3.3 billion. (Reuters)Tech• Jeff Bezos’s space venture, Blue Origin, reached a deal with Telesat of Canada to launch part of a satellite constellation intended to provide faster internet access. (Reuters)• New e-commerce rules in India caused widespread disruption on Amazon’s website there. (Reuters)• Elon Musk blamed layoffs at SpaceX on the company’s “two absolutely insane projects.” (CNBC)• Mark Zuckerberg added $6.2 billion to his net worth after Facebook posted revenue that beat Wall Street estimates, sending its shares soaring. (Bloomberg)Politics & Policy• President Trump said in an exclusive interview with the NYT that he would proceed with a border wall regardless of the result of talks with lawmakers and dismissed any suggestions of wrongdoing in the investigations that have ensnared his associates. (NYT)• The Republican-led Senate voted 68 to 23 to advance legislation that strongly opposes President Trump’s withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Syria and Afghanistan. (NYT)• President Trump signed an executive order intended to funnel more federal funding into infrastructure projects that employ American workers. (NYT)• Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the Senate majority leader, called Democratic legislation that aims to clear obstacles to voting and to make Election Day a federal holiday a “power grab.” (NYT)• Mr. Trump is said to be considering Herman Cain, the former pizza company executive and Republican presidential candidate, for a seat on the Federal Reserve Board. (Bloomberg)• Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, wants a 2 percent tax on household wealth exceeding $50 million, and a 3 percent tax for those with more than $1 billion. Here’s how the plan from the presidential hopeful would work. (Bloomberg)• Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has his own plan to subject billionaires to a 77 percent estate tax. Here’s how much Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates and Warren Buffett would have to pay. (CNBC)Best of the Rest• Fears that supply chains will be severely disrupted in the event of a no-deal Brexit are leading to shortages of food and medicines in Britain. (Reuters)• Nearly a third of British companies could move their operations abroad because of Brexit, according to a recent survey. (BBC)• The timing of Italy’s recession could not be worse: Europe is at an economic standstill, raising anxieties that the world is on the verge of a significant slowdown. (NYT)• The Venezuelan company Citgo Petroleum, one of the largest refiners in the U.S., is considering bankruptcy after the Trump administration placed sanctions on Venezuela’s oil sector. (WSJ)• Chinese factories increasingly make goods for the country’s middle class, but when those consumers hold back, local workers can suffer. (NYT)• Lime, a scooter start-up based in San Francisco, is raising $400 million in its latest funding round, which values the company at $2 billion. (WSJ)• Palantir, a data-mining company, is handing out more bonuses and cheaper stock options after a succession of shareholder write-downs and political controversies tied to its co-founder, Peter Thiel. (Bloomberg)• Shell Oil reached a tentative agreement with the United Steelworkers union to increase pay by 11 percent over three years for 30,000 American workers. (Reuters)• Banks and smaller companies helped lift the stock market, a sign that investors are favoring sectors tied to the U.S. economy as trade tensions cloud global growth. (WSJ)• E.U. antitrust authorities have accused eight banks of colluding from 2007 to 2012 to manipulate the market for eurozone government bonds. (FT)• The cosmetics company e.l.f. Beauty imported 156 shipments of false eyelash kits with material sourced from North Korea, violating sanctions. The company will pay a settlement of nearly $1 million to the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control. (CNBC)• As China’s economy slows, gambling revenue in Macau fell 5 percent to $3.1 billion in January, the first fall since July 2016. (FT)• The polar vortex may cost American retailers and restaurants nearly $1 billion. (FT)• Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the country’s largest bank, may struggle if a powerful government inquiry intensifies regulatory pressure. (Reuters)• The curious case of why shares of PG&E rose after the utility company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byYou’ll never guess why we have so much shooting.By Gail CollinsOpinion ColumnistPerhaps you missed it, but this week the House of Representatives held its first hearing on gun violence in eight years.I know, I know. You’ve had a lot to keep track of, what with everything from the meltdown in Virginia to Jeff Bezos’ selfies.But about the hearing. Testimony centered on a bill that would make it harder for people to buy guns without thorough background checks. Supporters pointed out that right now it’s ridiculously easy to get lethal weapons from an unlicensed seller who is not going to check to see if said purchaser might have a record of violence, stalking or involuntary commitment for mental illness.Amazing, right?Opponents hugged the Second Amendment and argued that the real reason we have so many deaths by gunfire is … Well, guess:A) GunsB) BulletsC) ImmigrantsYes! Are we living in the age of Trump or what?“I hope we do not forget the pain and anguish and sense of loss felt by those all over the country who have been the victims of violence at the hands of illegal aliens,” said Representative Matt Gaetz, a Florida Republican who read a short list of people who had been shot by undocumented immigrants. Better background checks, he contended, “would not have stopped many of the circumstances I raised, but a wall, a barrier on the southern border may have, and that’s what we’re fighting for.”Is there anything that the wall wouldn’t solve? Nearly 40,000 Americans died in gun violence in 2017, the last year for which we have records. But if only there’d been a huge concrete slab dividing us from Mexico, they’d be fine.There are a lot of lawmakers prepared to say almost anything, no matter how nutty, in their role as worker bees for the National Rifle Association. But it was sort of surprising that the lead ranter was from Florida.Next week we’ll be recalling the first anniversary of the Parkland high school shootings in which one student with a gun took the lives of 17 people. We just passed the second anniversary of the fatal shooting of five people in the baggage claim area of the Fort Lauderdale airport. Which came six months after 49 people were shot to death at a nightclub in Orlando. And it was just a couple of weeks ago that a young man walked into a bank in Sebring, Fla., pulled out a pistol, forced five women to lie on the ground and shot each one in the back of the head.All in Congressman Gaetz’s state. All the gunmen were native-born Americans. Perhaps Gaetz feels the border situation was sending dangerous vibes across the Gulf of Mexico and spurring them on.Americans are very, very strongly in favor of good background checks, and it does seem likely this bill will pass the newly Democratic House. Beyond minor technical fixes, that’ll be the first time either chamber has done anything about the issue of gun violence in years.Oh, wait. In 2017 the House and Senate got together and revoked an Obama-era regulation that had made it harder for mentally ill people to purchase a gun.It’s highly unlikely the background check bill will make it into law. “Color me unclear as to how we get Mitch McConnell to bring it up in the Senate,” said Chris Murphy of Connecticut, one of the Senate sponsors.Sigh. All you can do is keep on trying. It may not make the laws any better, but at least it’ll remind the public that some people in power are worried.We have terrible gun problems in this country not just because firearms are all over the place, but also because of the careless, stupid attitude so many people have toward them.Partly, I blame Congress. (Hey, it’s better than blaming a shortage of steel slat barriers.) Senator Murphy believes the endless rejection of any gun legislation looks like a kind of “moral green light” to potential killers: “I truly believe these young men who have something very dark happening in their minds watch our silence and interpret it as an endorsement.”It certainly helps perpetuate the attitude that guns are a casual part of everyday life, like your wallet or socks — something you wear when you go out to buy a loaf of bread, leave lying around the house and treat in general with less care and discretion than a light bulb.Last year safety inspectors at American airports found 4,239 firearms in passengers’ carry-on bags — almost all of them loaded and a third with a bullet already in the chamber. While a few of those people may have been plotting a crime, it’s pretty clear the vast majority were just incredibly careless with lethal weapons.This is the kind of thinking that gives us endless mayhem involving violent, semi-deranged young men who just grab one of the family guns and mow down five people in a bar. Toddlers who shoot themselves when they stumble across a gun that Dad or Granddad left sitting on the bed. Or find a rifle in the back seat of the car and accidentally kill Mom while she’s pulling into the preschool parking lot.We hear stories like that every day. Obviously, it’s all because of those caravans of immigrants coming to the border.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Gail Collins is an Op-Ed columnist, a former member of the editorial board and was the first woman to serve as Times editorial page editor, from 2001 to 2007.  @GailCollins • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]After facing months of vocal resistance, Amazon executives delivered a counteroffensive during a hearing Wednesday before the City Council, the second to delve into a deal that would bring new corporate offices to Queens with 25,000 jobs in exchange for as much as $3 billion in state and city incentives.At the start of the hearing, Amazon’s vice president for public policy, Brian Huseman, made a glancing reference in his prepared testimony to the fact that the company still has some say in whether it expands in New York City.“We were invited to come to New York, and we want to invest in a community that wants us,” he told the Council. He closed by repeating that the company wanted to “be part of the growth of a community where our employees and our company are welcome.”Opponents of the deal and their allies on the City Council also raised the possibility of the deal unraveling, asking officials whether the city could opt out of the agreement.“The mayor and the city could go to Amazon right now and say, ‘If you work with I.C.E., the deal is off; if you continue to be anti-union, the deal is off,’” said Councilman Jimmy Van Bramer, who represents the neighborhood of Long Island City, where the campus would be located.“We’re not looking to blow up the deal, but we are certainly looking to ensure that Amazon lives up to all of its obligations,” said James Patchett, the president of the city’s Economic Development Corporation. He acknowledged that most of the details of the deal — a nonbinding agreement between the city, state and Amazon — had yet to be worked out.The company said it remained committed to the plan to come to New York City, and in recent weeks has been mounting an aggressive effort at public relations to win support on the ground in Queens.Still, executives have expressed frustration in private at their treatment in New York, comparing it to the open-arms welcome they have gotten in Virginia, where the company announced plans to locate another large corporate campus.The deal with the city and state is not set in stone and could be undone by either party. And Amazon has yet to close on the purchase of a parcel of privately owned land that it would need for its new campus, according to a person with direct knowledge of the transaction.But Amazon seems more intent on weathering the storm of negative attention than packing its bags.Lobbyists and public relations experts enlisted by the company tried to ensure that the hearing on Wednesday went more smoothly than one in December, when Mr. Huseman and Holly Sullivan, who led the national search for a new corporate campus, faced withering questioning and a roomful of opponents.On Wednesday, a protest by opponents of the deal on the City Hall steps by local groups and the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union and the Teamsters was followed by a rally organized by Amazon in support of the company. The rally also included unions — Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union and the Building and Construction Trades Council.Indeed, much of the three-hour hearing revolved around Amazon’s approach related to labor unions. Council members spoke of their own family connections to unions as they excoriated the executives for Amazon’s treatment of its workers, especially in the sprawling distribution centers for home deliveries; one such center is on Staten Island.“Would you agree to neutrality if workers at Amazon wanted to unionize?” the speaker of the Council, Corey Johnson, asked early on.“No, sir,” Mr. Huseman said.The answer incensed several Council members who brought it up several times.Mr. Huseman, a mostly soft-spoken Oklahoman, parried questions more effectively than during the first hearing but grew animated after repeated questions about unionization.“We have great-paying jobs and we respect an employee’s right to choose or not to join a union,” he said. “The goal that you are trying to achieve is good jobs, not low-paying jobs. We pay $17 to $23 an hour in Staten Island.”Mayor Bill de Blasio, when asked at an unrelated news conference about the back-and-forth over unions, said: “Welcome to New York City. We’re a union town.”“There is going to be tremendous pressure on Amazon to allow unionization and I will be one of the people bringing that pressure,” he added. “I believe that ultimately that pressure will win the day.”At several points, Council members used comments Mr. de Blasio made in his State of the City speech about money being in the “wrong hands,” and the scourge of “Reaganomics,” to attack the deal. Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, is the world’s wealthiest person.Members of the Council also criticized the modest scope of Amazon’s announcement that it would hire as many as 30 residents of public housing for a customer service call center. The New York City Housing Authority is home to more than 400,000 people.“That idea came from conversations with the community advisory committee,” Ardine Williams, the company’s vice president of human resources, said, referring to gatherings organized by the state as part of the development process.After the hearing, Mr. Huseman made a point of shaking hands with Mr. Van Bramer and several other Council members.“A little better than last time,” he said as he made his way out. “They should be asking tough questions, and they did.”Follow J. David Goodman on Twitter: @jdavidgoodmanAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Jacey FortinAfter its first spaceflight in December, Virgin Galactic sent the same vessel past the edge of the atmosphere for a second time on Friday. This time, the rocket plane went higher and faster than before — and it had three crew members on board instead of two.The flight marked another step forward in a new kind of space race — one that aims to allow private citizens (who can afford the ticket) an opportunity to exit our atmosphere.It was the company’s fifth supersonic-powered test flight, and it reached an altitude of nearly 56 miles before returning safely to the Mojave Desert runway in California where it took off. Beth Moses, an astronaut trainer and microgravity research expert, was in the cabin as the company’s first test passenger in space.The SpaceShipTwo craft, a suborbital, rocket-fueled space plane called the VSS Unity, lifted off shortly after 8 a.m. local time. It was carried aloft under a larger  carrier plane for nearly an hour and then released. Next, its rocket ignited to propel the vessel, and its three crew members, up to where the sky turned black.Unity reached Mach 3 — three times the speed of sound — before the rocket motor was switched off shortly before 9 a.m. Then the vessel coasted to its highest altitude of 55.87 miles above sea level. Two tail booms rotated into a “feathered” position to create drag, allowing the vessel to fall gently back into the atmosphere and, ultimately, glide toward the runway.George T. Whitesides, the chief executive of Virgin Galactic, said the research conducted on the flight focused not only on the vessel’s trajectory, but also on the passenger experience.It went smoothly, he said. “The pilots did a great job.”The flight was a success for Richard Branson, the British billionaire who started Virgin Galactic in 2004. (Other billionaires funding private spaceflight projects include Elon Musk, who runs SpaceX, and Jeff Bezos, who is behind Blue Origin.)“Having Beth fly in the cabin today, starting to ensure that our customer journey is as flawless as the spaceship itself, brings a huge sense of anticipation and excitement to all of us here who are looking forward to experiencing space for ourselves,” Mr. Branson said in a statement on Friday.Ms. Moses’ job was to evaluate how passengers might experience a trip in the cabin. She observed the light, the temperature and the feeling of moving around in zero gravity. In an interview after the flight, she said it felt comfortable, and the view was beautiful.“It was intense and magical and serene and almost unlike anything anyone can imagine,” she said. “The earth below was super clear and bright, with a beautiful blue Pacific Ocean and snow on the mountaintops.”Ventures like these are more useful for testing the limits of tourism than for advancing scientific research, said Jonathan McDowell, an astrophysicist at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics. He said the Virgin flights could be used to conduct microgravity tests or equipment checks.“But at this stage, from a scientist’s point of view, it’s equivalent to what we call a sounding rocket,” he said. “And we’ve been doing those since the 1940s.”Sounding rockets are vessels that were sent by NASA to the upper reaches of the atmosphere to collect data and test instruments starting in 1945 — an important precursor to more advanced space travel.NASA did participate in Friday’s flight via its Flight Opportunities program, which pays Virgin Galactic for space to conduct research inside the Unity during its trip.And the three people on board — two pilots, David Mackay and Michael Masucci, and Ms. Moses — got the vantage point of a lifetime.Never miss an eclipse, a meteor shower, a rocket launch or any other astronomical and space event that's out of this world.In an interview after the flight, Mr. Mackay commented on how quickly the sky turned black once the atmosphere faded, and Mr. Masucci said he was astonished by the sight of a very bright moon. They said the flight was amazing, but not frightening.“If you’re fully prepared, you don’t feel scared,” Mr. Mackay said.There is some room for debate as to whether Virgin Galactic has actually sent people into space. On both of its space trips — the vessel reached an altitude of 51.4 miles last time — the Unity flew higher than the Federal Aviation Administration’s definition of where space begins, but lower than another widely accepted boundary between Earth and space, called the Kármán Line, which is about 62 miles above sea level.In any case, Unity has flown high enough that the pilots saw a black sky above them and a blue-brown Earth below as they crested at the edge of the atmosphere. (Dr. McDowell is skeptical about the Kármán Line and thinks it is fair to say that Unity reached proper space on both of its recent trips.)Unity was the first Virgin Galactic craft to reach space, but it was not the first private spacecraft to get there. Another ship, operated by Mojave Aerospace Ventures, which later licensed its technology to Mr. Branson, soared to an altitude of 69.7 miles about 15 years ago.At the time, people predicted that it was the dawn of a new age of commercial human spaceflight. But the enthusiasm faded as years passed. Some non-astronauts were flown to the International Space Station, but commercial flights did not come to fruition. Then came a tragic setback: the fatal crash of a previous SpaceShipTwo craft in 2014. One pilot was killed after he released the lock on the booms too early and the vessel fell apart, investigators found.Virgin Galactic is expected to keep doing test flights and making improvements in terms of safety, altitude and weight capacity. It is still unclear when private citizens — including the more than 600 who have already bought tickets — will be allowed to take a ride.“It’s definitely not a decade,” Mr. Whitesides said. “We are really getting pretty close.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byDigital media has always been a turbulent business, but last week’s layoffs suggest a reason for panic. By Farhad ManjooOpinion ColumnistWorking in digital media is like trying to build a fort out of marshmallows on a foundation made of marbles in a country ruled by capricious and tyrannical warring robots. I’ve toiled in this business for nearly 20 years, and even in the best of times it has been a squeamish and skittering ride, the sort of career you’d counsel your kids to avoid in favor of something less volatile and more enduring — bitcoin mining, perhaps. It might be tempting, then, to dismiss the recent spate of media-biz layoffs as unfortunate but otherwise not concerning. Two hundred workers, including dozens of journalists, were given the slip last week at BuzzFeed. About 800 people are losing their jobs in the media division of Verizon, the telephone company that owns Yahoo, HuffPost, TechCrunch and many other “content brands.” And Gannett, the once-mighty newspaper empire that owns USA Today and hundreds of smaller outlets — from The Bergen County Record to The Zanesville Times Recorder — is letting go of 400.But it would be a mistake to regard these cuts as the ordinary chop of a long-roiling digital media sea. Instead, they are a devastation. [Farhad Manjoo answered your questions on Twitter.]The cause of each company’s troubles may be distinct, but collectively the blood bath points to the same underlying market pathology: the inability of the digital advertising business to make much meaningful room for anyone but monopolistic tech giants.Coming in a time of economic prosperity, at world-historical levels of interest in the news, last week’s cuts tell a story of impending slow-motion doom — and a democratic emergency in the making, with no end in sight.Consider: We are in the midst of a persistent global information war. We live our lives on technologies that sow distrust and fakery, that admit little room for nuance and complication, that slice us up into ignorant and bleating tribes. It is an era that should be ripe for journalists and for the business of journalism — a profession that, though it errs often, is the best way we know of inoculating ourselves against the suffocating deluge of rumor and mendacity.And for a while, it looked like we could do that. The past half decade has been a season of bold and optimistic innovation in media. In addition to the Trump bump, there was new money from venture capitalists, and giants in cable and telecom. Big brands, looking to attract millennials, began to spend haltingly and then generously on advertising, leading to a Cambrian explosion of new sites, new formats, new business models. And consumers began opening up their wallets to support journalism, turning around the fortunes of The New York Times.Many in the industry remain optimistic about these ways forward. There’s a doubling-down on subscriptions, a rush to podcasts and high-end video, and a return to smaller and more calculated media ventures, like Bill Simmons’s tiny but profitable start-up, The Ringer. Then there is the charity of digital billionaires. The Craig Newmark Graduate School of Journalism, Jeff Bezos’ Washington Post, Laurene Powell Jobs’s Atlantic magazine, Marc Benioff’s Time and Farhad Manjoo’s Color Me Skeptical That the Billionaires Who Got Us Into This Mess Will Save Us Gazette.But it takes only a quick jaunt through the particulars of last week’s layoffs to snuff out much reason for optimism.In the cuts at Gannett, we see the nearly final evisceration of local news, an institution recognized as democratically vital even by the mainstream media’s most frothing detractors. Gannett’s end now looks nigh; the company is presently laboring under a hostile takeover bid by a secretive hedge fund whose only demonstrated expertise lies in “strip-mining” publications of their final morsels of profit.In the troubles at Verizon, we see a behemoth that tried to take on Google and Facebook. Under a former executive, Tim Armstrong, the phone company bought up Yahoo and other media brands as useful pawns in a strategic war against internet giants. For similar reasons, Comcast has also plowed money into media start-ups.But Verizon quickly learned that Facebook and Google are insurmountable. When new management took over last year, it began dumping the news in favor of readier ways to make money.It’s the cuts at BuzzFeed that sting most. You may regard the site as a purveyor of silly listicles and inane quizzes. I think of it as a relentlessly experimental innovator: It’s the site that gave us The Dress and published The Dossier, a company that pushed the rest of the industry to regard the digital world with seriousness and rigor.More than anyone else in media, BuzzFeed’s founder, Jonah Peretti, bet on symbioses with the tech platforms. He understood that the tech giants would keep getting bigger, but to him that was a feature, not a bug. By creating content that hooked into their algorithms, he imagined BuzzFeed getting bigger — and making money — along with them.At the least, the layoffs suggest the tragic folly of Mr. Peretti’s thinking. Google and Facebook have no economic incentive for symbiosis; everything BuzzFeed can do for them can also be done by the online hordes who’ll make content without pay.So where does that leave media? Bereft. It is the rare publication that can survive on subscriptions, and the rarer one that will be saved by billionaires. Digital media needs a way to profitably serve the masses. If even BuzzFeed couldn’t hack that, we are well and truly hosed.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Farhad Manjoo became an opinion columnist for The Times in 2018. Before that, he wrote the State of the Art column. He is the author of “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.”  @fmanjoo • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON — Donald Trump specializes in spectacular breakups.First there was Ivana. Then there was Marla. Now comes trouble in paradise with Kim.Last fall, Trump cooed that the North Korean dictator wrote him “beautiful letters” and “we fell in love,” but then the president canceled their lunch date following their disappointing rendezvous in Hanoi.Yet all the crazy tabloid splits and international spats seem pallid in comparison to the pathetic spectacle in Congress on Wednesday: a heartbroken ex publicly and bitterly processing his relationship with Trump.This time, it wasn’t just lust, betrayal and secrets splayed across Page Six. This time, it was in Congress, part of an investigation that could lead to legal jeopardy for the Trumps or impeachment for the president.In his testimony, Michael Cohen called himself a “fool” when it came to Trump. “I ignored my conscience and acted loyal to a man when I should not have,” Cohen said. A fool for love, held in thrall by Trump. How could anyone be held in thrall by such a sleazy goofball, much less offer to take a bullet for him or make 500 threats on his behalf?“It seems unbelievable that I was so mesmerized by Donald Trump that I was willing to do things for him that I knew were absolutely wrong,” said Cohen in his “Goodfellas” accent, adding that being around the “icon” was “intoxicating.”“Mr. Trump is an enigma,” Cohen said. “He is complicated, as am I.”Actually, Trump is simple, grasping for money, attention and fame. The enigma about Trump is why he cut off his lap dog so brutally that Cohen fell into the embrace of Robert Mueller and New York federal prosecutors. Trump is often compared to a mob boss, but Michael Corleone would never turn on a loyal capo, only on one who had crossed him.The portrait Cohen drew of Trump was not surprising. It has been apparent for some time that the president is a con man, racist, cheat and liar. (See: Jared Kushner security clearance.)What was most compelling about the congressional hearing was the portrait of the sadistic relationship between the sycophant and the sociopath.Cohen told the House Oversight Committee that working for Trump had made him feel that he was “involved in something greater than yourself — that you were somehow changing the world.”Threatening to sue people and take away their livelihoods or ruin their reputations isn’t exactly Greenpeace or Doctors Without Borders. But Cohen was chugging Trump Kool-Aid. He saw himself as Trump’s protector, the thug’s thug.In late 2017, he appeared to get misty while talking to Vanity Fair’s Emily Jane Fox about Trump: “One man who wants to do so much good with so many detractors against him needs support.” He vowed he would never walk away from Trump, no matter what. A year ago, he even shopped around a book that was meant to be a rebuttal to Michael Wolff’s “Fire and Fury,” pitched as the “family fix-it guy” and titled “Trump Revolution: From the Tower to the White House, Understanding Donald J. Trump.”He understands Trump now.A stung Trump went on a tweet storm Friday morning, bringing up that book proposal, calling it a “‘love letter to Trump’ manuscript,” and noting: “Written and submitted long after Charlottesville and Helsinki, his phony reasons for going rogue. Book is exact opposite of his fake testimony, which now is a lie!”Unlike many Republican TV commentators who can wash away past sins about Sarah Palin and the Iraq war — and get a big payday and liberal love — by trashing Trump, Cohen is not destined for reputation rehab.The problem in a nutshell, as Trump biographer Timothy O’Brien once told The Times, was that Michael Cohen wasn’t Roy Cohn. The latter Trump lawyer was the one who helped shape Trump’s character or lack thereof, drumming in the win-at-all-costs mentality Donald had learned at his father’s knee.Trump, who once bleated “Where’s my Roy Cohn?” in his anger about Jeff Sessions recusing himself, wanted a lawyer who was whip-smart, amoral, ruthless and predatory. Cohen was merely Renfield to Trump’s Dracula, gratefully eating insects and doing the fiend’s bidding.Trump used Cohen for dirty deeds done dirt cheap, as ACDC sang.The Wall Street Journal reported that Trump showed up late to Cohen’s son’s bar mitzvah and then made a belittling speech about how he had come only because Cohen had begged him and everyone around him. The Times revealed last April that Trump had regularly threatened to fire Cohen and quoted Roger Stone saying that Trump mocked Cohen for overpaying for Trump real estate.With a few exceptions in his inner circle and with family, Trump doesn’t give loyalty or deserve it. That’s why Republicans on the Hill who so obsequiously stand by him will eventually learn it wasn’t worth it, just as Cohen warned them.Loyalty is a rare commodity in Washington. And Cohen is not the most wretched sycophant in political history. That honor goes to Andrew Young, a slavishly devoted aide to John Edwards during the 2008 campaign who served as a driver, personal shopper, handyman and butler to the North Carolina senator.When Edwards had an affair with campaign videographer Rielle Hunter and a pregnancy ensued, he persuaded Young to say that he was the father. Edwards also got Young to go on the lam with his wife, who was a nurse, and Hunter and the baby, hiding out in fancy hotels and a posh home near Santa Barbara — an odyssey financed by Young and Bunny Mellon. As Young wrote in “The Politician,” inside the campaign there was “a cult-like atmosphere” that encouraged extreme sycophancy.When Trump gave me a tour of his campaign headquarters in Trump Tower in the summer of 2016, he introduced Cohen as “my lawyer.” Cohen looked furtive, standing around with Trump favorites Corey Lewandowski and Hope Hicks and a few young guys at a desk and a whole bunch of Trump portraits and cutouts and a wall with pictures of Trump’s vanquished primary rivals.It was the least presidential campaign headquarters ever, with the drywall still unfinished in some places. As The Times reported, Cohen, who had been pushing for years for Trump to be president, was jealous of the attention Trump gave Lewandowski.When Trump somehow stumbled into the presidency, he and his family did not think Cohen was up to snuff to come to Washington, much less get some high-level job like chief of staff that he dreamed of. The Journal reported that Cohen and his guests did not even get priority access to the inaugural fetes.“He was central casting for Trump Tower but not for 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue,” Trump biographer Michael D’Antonio told me. “The problem is, of course, that much of what burdens Cohen is exactly what Trump liked about him in the past. He was willing to be awful on command and had done so countless times making countless enemies. As someone who was the target of this behavior, I can tell you it was so cartoonish as to be ridiculous.”Everyone is disposable in Trumpworld. They sidelined the fixer. By the time federal prosecutors were investigating Cohen’s hush payments to Trump inamoratas, an adult-film actress and a former Playboy model, Trump was barely speaking to Cohen.“Boss, I miss you so much,” he said in a rare phone call with Trump, The Journal reported. “I wish I was down there with you. It’s really hard for me to be here.”The yearning was even more palpable than texts from Jeff Bezos to Lauren Sanchez.The self-styled protector was in purdah and he resented it.“If Trump was more sophisticated and had the ability to think long term, he would have anticipated that Cohen might have become a problem if he didn’t hold him close,” O’Brien told me. But Trump isn’t a long-term thinker.“He’s never had to deal with the people he has face-planted coming back to haunt him — ever. He’s been doing this to people for decades,” O’Brien said. The difference now? “He never had law enforcement turning people on him and essentially weaponizing them against him.”D’Antonio agreed that “the president made the mistake of disrespecting Cohen because he believed he had purchased Michael and that he would stay bought. When the underdog turns and bites hard, the overdog is always surprised.”I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBest of Late NightBy Giovanni RussonelloWelcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox.As Melania Trump already knows, just because President Trump loves you doesn’t mean he can spell your name. Hamburgers just found that out the hard way.Trump hosted the Clemson football team at the White House on Tuesday, and he welcomed the players with a overflowing order of fast food. But when he tweeted about the experience — proudly declaring that he had paid for the meal himself — Trump misspelled “hamburgers.” Badly.“Because of the Shutdown I served them massive amounts of Fast Food (I paid), over 1000 hamberders etc.,” he wrote. (The number may also be wrong: Speaking to reporters, he said that he had ordered only 300 burgers.)The president deleted the tweet soon after it was posted, but it was too late: Late-night TV had already spied its red meat.“Normally I would wonder if you didn’t know how to spell it or if you just made a typo. But this one is so bad, I think it’s both. I think you don’t know how to spell it, and then you made a typo of the wrong spelling in your head. I think you looked at that afterwards and thought, [impersonating Trump] ‘Oh man, that’s supposed to have two d’s in it! I’m so emblarassed.’” — SETH MEYERS“That’s right, in addition to ‘hamberders,’ there were ‘chorken nerglets,’ ‘fronch firs,’ ‘felayshofitch’ and of course ‘pizzazz.’” — STEPHEN COLBERTSenator Kirsten Gillibrand isn’t the first Democrat to announce she’s exploring a run for president in 2020 — but she is the first to do it on late-night TV. Gillibrand, who represents New York, broke the news in a highly anticipated appearance on “The Late Show” Tuesday night.She grabbed Stephen Colbert by the hand and told him: “I’m filing an exploratory committee for president of the United States — tonight!” Then she listed the reasons she’s running.“I’m going to fight for other people’s kids as hard as I would fight for my own — which is why I believe that health care should be a right and not a privilege,” she said. “It’s why I believe we should have better public schools for our kids, because it shouldn’t matter what block you grow up on. And I believe that anybody who wants to work hard enough should be able to get whatever job training they need to earn their way into the middle class.”Colbert reminded Gillibrand that he had run presidential campaigns (as stunts, of course) in 2008 and 2012. “I know how difficult it can be. I hope it goes better for you than it did for me,” he joked.Then Colbert offered the senator a basket full of charms and souvenirs, including a plane ticket to Michigan — a sidelong swipe at Hillary Clinton, who neglected to campaign in that state in 2016 and famously lost it to Trump.Jimmy Fallon taped Tuesday’s “Tonight Show” in Puerto Rico, and things got going with a bang. During the opening sequence, Fallon joined Lin-Manuel Miranda and the cast of “Hamilton” in the theater in San Juan where they’re currently performing the musical. Then, along with Questlove and Black Thought of the Roots, he wandered into downtown San Juan, where he met up with the singer Bad Bunny. An impromptu dance party started.Later in the show, Fallon interviewed Miranda about his decision to bring “Hamilton” to Puerto Rico, where the playwright and actor’s father is from. Miranda talked about the resonances between the subject matter in “Hamilton” and the experiences of Puerto Ricans.“There’s a song in this show called ‘Hurricane,’ and I could barely get through it last night, because it is about that,” he said. “What I remember from Hurricane Maria so vividly was the quiet — was, like, literally not being able to hear from the island in that sort of immediate aftermath. And the opening line to that song is, ‘In the eye of a hurricane, there’s quiet.’ So it sort of brought all that back.” He said he hadn’t imagined “it would resonate in this particular way.”Miranda is donating the proceeds from the performances there to the Flamboyan Foundation, which supports artists on the island.Representative Steve King — who has a long history of making racist remarks — was stripped of his committee posts this week by congressional Republican leaders after saying in an interview with The New York Times that he wasn’t sure why terms like “white supremacist” and “white nationalist” were considered offensive. He’s been derided by politicians on both sides of the aisle, and some Republicans have called for him to resign.One person who has not weighed in is Trump, who told reporters that he had not been following the story. Hearing this, Trevor Noah feigned astonishment.“You haven’t been following it? What else are you doing? [impersonating Trump] ‘I’m extremely busy, folks. You think a name like “Jeff Bozo” just comes out of nowhere, huh? Genius like that takes time!’” — TREVOR NOAH, referring to Trump’s new epithet for Jeff Bezos“In an interview with The New York Times, Steve King basically said that he doesn’t think there’s anything wrong with being a white supremacist. Now, that feels like a pretty racist thing to say — which makes it even more surprising that Trump isn’t following this. I mean, you’d think an algorithm would have recommended it by now. It’d be like, ‘If you like Charlottesville, you’ll love Steve King!’” — TREVOR NOAHAfter critiquing Trump, Noah aired a noir-style skit in which he donned a detective’s outfit and tried to sleuth out whether King is, in fact, a racist.Seth Meyers decided to examine how Trump’s policies were affecting the rural voters who helped elect him.Just how strong is Terry Crews?Lily Tomlin and Jane Fonda, whose Netflix show “Grace and Frankie” is about to embark on its fifth season, will talk to Jimmy Kimmel on Wednesday.The Motion Picture Academy threw up its hands and decided to go without a host at next month’s Oscars. But the Grammys, at least, will have a host — and it will be Alicia Keys, the singer announced on Tuesday. She’ll be the broadcast’s first female host in over a decade.Plus, Ideas for What to Watch Tonight:The Best Movies on Amazon Prime Video Right NowThe 100 Best Movies on Netflix Right NowThe 25 Best Films of the 21st CenturyAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAs the company cancels its plans for a major Queens campus, anti-corporate activists got what they wanted at a great cost. By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.“You have to be tough to make it in New York City,” Mayor Bill de Blasio boasted, choosing to jeer at Amazon as it canceled its plans on Thursday to build a new headquarters in Queens, after some local officials angrily criticized its proposal. What a strange thing for the mayor to take pride in. It’s certainly true that you have to be tough these days. But that’s because the subways don’t work, the streets are gridlocked, the housing is unaffordable, the shelters are overcrowded, and the schools are segregated and often inadequate. Now think how much tougher it’ll become for the typical citizen — not the ones who ride in chauffeured government cars — if New York gets a reputation for the smugness of its politicians and their hostility to business. There were all sorts of problems with the deal New York cut to bring Amazon to the city, and Amazon is no paragon, but its abrupt withdrawal was a blow to New York, which stood to gain 25,000 jobs and an estimated $27 billion in tax revenue over the next two decades. This embarrassment to the city presents a painful lesson in how bumper-sticker slogans and the hubris of elected — and corporate — officials can create losers on all sides.Gov. Andrew Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio, in a rare fit of comity, rolled out the red carpet for Amazon, for what would have been one of the biggest economic deals ever in the state. They offered the company $3 billion in tax benefits to build a campus in the Long Island City neighborhood. But it was clear as soon as the company, governor and mayor announced the deal in November that not all New Yorkers felt welcoming. Politicians and activists had good reason to criticize the size of the tax breaks and the secrecy of the negotiations. After years of rapid development in New York that has come with soaring real estate prices, many rightly feared Amazon’s arrival could accelerate already costly gentrification. Things quickly got out of hand, though, and reasonable criticism of the deal was overwhelmed by opposition to the company itself, even as polls showed wide support for Amazon’s move to Queens. Elected officials who identify as progressive painted Amazon as a rapacious engine of inequality. It seemed that few were interested in having a constructive conversation about how to improve the deal and make it work for the tech giant and the city.Some berated the company’s executives in a City Council hearing and at rallies. That kind of tough talk is par for the course in “if you can make it here, you can make it anywhere” New York. But in grandstanding, they missed an opportunity to try to get the company to help address housing and infrastructure problems that the development, for all its benefits, would exacerbate. Perhaps they thought the city’s pool of skilled workers and many other attractions made it so irresistible that there was no need to negotiate.“We have the best talent in the world, and every day we are growing a stronger and fairer economy for everyone,” the mayor said. “If Amazon can’t recognize what that’s worth, its competitors will.” Because, you know, Amazon’s competitors have a great track record of seeing the future more clearly than Jeff Bezos.Last week, the State Senate majority leader, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, nominated a critic of the deal, Senator Michael Gianaris, to a state board that had veto power over it. Mr. Gianaris, who represents the district where the campus would have been located, had legitimate concerns over the arrangement and wanted more investment from Amazon in the city. Though his staff was engaged in discussions with Amazon, he refused even to meet with anyone from the company. His appointment could only have helped Amazon decide to call New York’s bluff. The governor seems to think so.“The New York State Senate has done tremendous damage,” Mr. Cuomo said in a statement on Thursday. “They should be held accountable for this lost economic opportunity.” He’s got a point.Blame also needs to be assigned, of course, to a system in which powerful corporations can milk billions in tax benefits out of cities and states to locate facilities, without any added investment in infrastructure, schools and other benefits. Amazon, one of the richest companies in the world, run by the richest man in the world, had held a nationwide contest in which governments scraped together enough entitlements to satisfy it, even as those same cities struggled to fortify corroding infrastructure and stave off a housing crisis that has pushed the middle class to the brink and forced the poor into homeless shelters. Amazon’s initial offerings to New York — like a $5 million commitment to work force development — were meager. The company displayed arrogance of its own and seemed to have little respect for greater public scrutiny and review, and little interest in salvaging the deal once it became vulnerable. Mssrs. Cuomo and de Blasio should have better prepared for what was in store, since their constituents are maybe more worried about housing, subways and the cost of living than in job creation alone. In fact, it’s partly thanks to the failure of these elected leaders to seriously address the subway and housing crises that Amazon was met by some with such visceral anger and anxiety. If they’d better anticipated that reaction, they might have worked with the company to address these issues, and win local buy-in before things went off the rails. Then, together with Amazon, they could have helped the city diversify its economy and leverage the power of a tech giant to help solve big problems. It’s an opportunity lost. May it also be a lesson learned.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" work FriendMaybe you’re a freelancer. Maybe you’re trying to get a freelancer’s attention. Either way, getting to inbox sanity is a slippery exercise.Enough with the reminders, already.CreditCreditEmily Simms for The New York TimesSupported byBy Katy LedererSend questions about the office, money, careers and work-life balance to workfriend@nytimes.com. Include your name and location, even if you want them withheld. Letters may be edited.As a freelance writer, I work from home. Many of my “work associates” are either (A) people who email me ideas or (B) people I email ideas to. Multiple times a day, I receive follow-up emails from members of category A. Sometimes they’re checking in on something they sent mere hours ago. I get enough of these emails that I cannot respond to every one, otherwise my entire workday would be spent writing missives like “Sorry, not interested!” Of course, I find myself on the other end of this hellish pitch cycle when I send follow-up emails to members of category B, usually no sooner than three days after sending my last note.All of which poses the question: What is a reasonable amount of time to wait before sending a follow-up email?— S.M., Los AngelesI started off writing a long thing about how freelancers are like a pile of worms trapped in a Mason jar. They writhe around one another, unable to escape, because whenever one tries to climb up the disgusting, slippery wall, the others can’t help wriggling and pulling the almost-free one back into the heaving, moistened pile. But I stopped writing this because there is actually a simple answer to your question.First, get a second email account. Give this new address to anyone who pitches you.Second, write an out-of-office message: “Hello there. Thank you for your query. I do my best to respond to every pitch, but it can take me up to three days to do so. If your message is time-sensitive, please write ‘time-sensitive’ in the subject line and re-send. If you have not heard from me within three days, you can assume that your pitch is not a fit for me right now.”When it comes to your own pitches: three days seems a good interval to me, though you should certainly write “time-sensitive” in the subject line if three days will be too long to wait. Make sure it’s not a holiday or the editor hasn’t been fired since you first pitched.As for escaping from the writhing Mason jar to actually get something of substance accomplished: During the day, go to a cafe and write from there. Don’t ask for the internet password. (When you do, you’re just begging for your computer to be hacked.) Get more work done and become rich and powerful.I like the people at work, the hours aren’t bad, the office is pretty nice, etc. But I hate my job and really resent going to work every day. My real passion is playwriting, and I can’t help but think that if I didn’t have this job, I’d get a lot more writing done. I feel embarrassed when I tell people what it is I do for a living and worry that they’ll think less of me and not “get” me. I know that’s stupid, but it’s wearing on my self-esteem.How do you know when it’s time to quit your day job? Or: How do you keep up your day job and keep your head up at the same time?— P.B., San FranciscoYour worries are not stupid. Many people that you know and meet will think less of you, at least if you live in an absurdly competitive city like San Francisco. Any excuse to feel even a little bit better than someone else, right?Because who knows what’s going on with them. Maybe they have sacrificed everything — even adequate dental care — to follow their dreams, and now their molars are falling out of their mouth and they can hardly eat yogurt, let alone subsist on all the writing they produce on a daily basis.Or maybe they have a huge trust fund that they don’t tell anyone about, and they live in a hovel even though they could afford a mansion, and every week they complain to their expensive therapist about feeling like a fraud.Maybe they have a professional partner who financially supports their work, and they write and they write, and they publish and publish, but it all sucks.Maybe one day they meet you at a party. You say you have a day job, but instead of stating proudly that you work in a fine office with kind colleagues that you actually like, you act like an impostor. After the party, they go home and gossip to friends that you’re a sellout and a fool. Their friends outwardly agree with them, even though they know inside your writing’s actually really good, day job or not.In fact, everybody knows inside your writing’s actually really good, but no one will ever admit this to themselves, let alone each other, because this might jeopardize whatever sort of unstable hierarchy they have established in the gloomy bars and insular theaters that they frequent as a group in their ridiculous amounts of spare time.Trust me, these people who despise you and talk about you behind your back would like nothing more than for you to actually stop writing. It would legitimize their choices and it would also cull the field by one more body, which is more than none. But don’t give them what they want, O.K.? Just keep writing and, maybe more important, just keep putting yourself out there.Bitter writing can be good. Angry writing can be really good. And writing about soul-crushing day jobs has produced some genuine theatrical masterpieces.Should you follow your interviewer on Twitter after a (media) job interview? Or is that weird?— A., BostonNo, you should not. But it wouldn’t be that weird if you did, either.Think upside and downside: The upside if you follow is … what? You read this person’s random hot take on whatever new pickle Jeff Bezos has gotten himself into? The downside is: There is a small but nonzero chance they think you’re creepy or annoying. If you think the interview went well, just leave it at that. Always leave them wanting more.Katy Lederer is the author of three books of poems and a memoir. Write to her at workfriend@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman and Karen WeiseA senior executive from Amazon, one of the world’s biggest companies, found himself last weekend in a showdown with a suburban state senator.The executive, Brian Huseman, was trying to find out whether the New York state senator, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, would keep an obscure state board from blocking Amazon’s ambitious plans to expand in New York City.It was the second phone call in two days between Mr. Huseman and Ms. Stewart-Cousins, who had just risen to power as Democratic majority leader, and once again, she tried to explain to him the politics of Albany.Ms. Stewart-Cousins said in an interview that she told Mr. Huseman, “We just need to move on,” indicating that Amazon had to let the approval process run its course.It was not the response that Amazon wanted.For Amazon, long accustomed to highly deferential treatment from localities across the country, the phone call was a further indignity after weeks of relentless criticism from lawmakers, unions and progressive activists that the company feared was staining its reputation.On Thursday, Amazon abruptly announced that it was canceling the deal, under which the company had promised to create more than 25,000 jobs on a new campus in Long Island City, Queens, in return for nearly $3 billion in government incentives.An examination of the deal’s collapse showed that Amazon badly misjudged how it would be received in New York, apparently because the company has rarely ventured into such a raucous political arena as it has pursued a breakneck expansion in recent years.This account was pieced together from dozens of interviews this week with government officials, Amazon representatives, lobbyists and others. Most spoke on the condition of anonymity to relay closed-door deliberations.[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The company’s retreat capped several days of intense behind-the-scenes maneuvering between government officials and Amazon executives, including efforts by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo to woo unions and Mayor Bill de Blasio to try to reach Jeff Bezos, the company’s chief executive.On Monday, Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio, bitter rivals who had put aside their differences to mount a bid for an Amazon site, met in Albany to discuss how to pacify unions that had voiced strong objections to the company.Mr. de Blasio then called a top executive in the company, seeking assurances that the deal was still on. The executive did not indicate that it was in trouble.Public housing residents rallied on Monday, when a second poll came out showing broad support around the state for the deal.“We’re working to make sure that folks from our neighborhood could benefit from those jobs; there’s going to be a lot of jobs,” Bishop Mitchell G. Taylor, a community leader, said on Monday. Bishop Taylor grew up in the Queensbridge Houses, the large public housing development in Long Island City.On Tuesday morning, senior aides to the governor and mayor talked by phone with Mr. Huseman about next steps, including how to promote the jobs that the company was planning for New York.On the ground, the efforts appeared to be paying off: More local elected leaders were declaring their support for the deal. “N.Y. loves Amazon” buttons began appearing on lapels in the city.By Wednesday, a senior Amazon executive in charge of real estate, John Schoettler, arrived from Seattle for a meeting convened by Mr. Cuomo in his Manhattan offices between Amazon and unions. By the end, the unions and the executives seemed to be making progress toward a resolution.That night, the company decided internally to pull the plug.The choice blindsided Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio.“Out of nowhere, they took their ball and went home,” Mr. de Blasio said on Thursday night.He learned of the decision in a phone call from Jay Carney, an Amazon vice president and a former spokesman for President Barack Obama, according to a person briefed on the call. Even as the deal was in peril, Mr. Carney, who oversees the company’s press and government relations, never went to New York to meet with officials, three people with knowledge of the meetings said.Amazon can deliver toothpaste in traffic-snarled Manhattan on the same day an order is placed. But when it came to navigating the politics of New York, the company appeared out of step, a giant stumbling onto a political stage that — despite its data-driven success — it never fully understood.“Amazon underestimated the power of a vocal minority and miscalculated how much it needed to engage with those audiences to make HQ2 a success,” Joseph Parilla, a fellow at the Brookings Institution, said, referring to the second headquarters search.The company, in particular, failed to develop a robust strategy to address the growing influence of the progressive left in New York, led by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of Queens, who was elected in November and was a fervent skeptic of the deal.The political winds changed so swiftly that local lawmakers in Queens who had signed a letter in 2017 trying to woo Amazon refashioned themselves as champions of the opposition in recent months.One of them, State Senator Michael Gianaris, refused repeatedly to even meet with Amazon representatives despite at least three requests.So, too, did Corey Johnson, the speaker of the City Council; Mr. Johnson held hearings instead of the private meetings Amazon requested. Amazon met with 35 of the 51 council members, and more had been scheduled for this week. Mr. Johnson’s staff did meet with the company.A spokeswoman for Amazon declined to comment for this article. But two people involved in internal discussions at Amazon said the company’s concerns were not primarily that the deal would fail to receive government approval. Executives were confident it would cross the finish line.The company instead felt that, with little sign that the opposition was dissipating, it was staring down a decades-long commitment to a political climate in which everything the company did would be scrutinized.“Amazon had to think about what a long-term relationship with New York City would look like, and based on the experiences with local and state politicians to date, concluded it would be difficult at best,” one of the people said.Amazon executives involved in the negotiations said they were frustrated that the economic benefits of the project — a winning argument with many business leaders and some community members, including public housing residents — failed to sway some officials.“What we were hearing from people — small business owners, educators, community leaders — was completely different than what we were getting from the local elected officials,” said one of the people involved with the Amazon side.Those feelings, and Amazon’s eventual retreat, were foreshadowed by testimony from Mr. Huseman last month at the City Council: “We were invited to come to New York,” he said, adding pointedly, “and we want to invest in a community that wants us.”Instead, the company saw how its plans for Queens had become such a flash point that they turned into an issue in the Feb. 26 special election for public advocate, a citywide position with a big megaphone. Company officials worried that the debate over the project could drag on and become ensnared in the 2021 mayoral election, and beyond.“In most places, people are just doing cartwheels and somersaults when Amazon comes in,” said Alex Pearlstein, vice president at Market Street Services, which helps cities attract employers. “New York just didn’t need them as bad as most places do.”Amazon grew in Seattle for almost two decades with little civic engagement. Initially, most of its buildings were built by an outside developer. Neither Mr. Bezos, nor any Amazon executive, attended the groundbreaking ceremony for its headquarters that the mayor and governor threw.By about 2015, as Amazon was developing its own buildings, and with roughly 25,000 employees in Washington State, it started engaging more, albeit slowly.A top real estate executive chaired the local Chamber of Commerce, and it began forging relationships with two local nonprofits, one that works with homeless families and another job training program for the restaurant industry.Yet even as housing costs soared in the booming city, Amazon did not take public positions in debates over how to alleviate the affordability crunch. It largely saw its role as creating high-paying jobs, and the city’s job to accommodate them.So last year, when Amazon said it might halt its growth locally if the city approved a tax on large employers to fund homeless services and low-income housing, it sent a shock throughout Seattle. The city was not accustomed to the company playing hardball, let alone commenting on politics.The trouble in New York City began last year with a hostile City Council hearing in December, and then another last month.The company endured hours of attacks on its plans to come to New York, and on its business practices — particularly its stance against unions — in general. Protesters heckled. Council members forced an Amazon official to declare the company’s anti-union stance on the record.The moment resonated for executives: Amazon was not accustomed to being forced to respond publicly on its policies and operations.A turning point came on Feb. 4, when Ms. Stewart-Cousins, the new Democratic leader in the State Senate, selected Mr. Gianaris, the state senator and one of Amazon’s most vocal opponents, to the board with the power to block the deal. It was clear the opposition would not go away soon.Mr. Cuomo could refuse to appoint Mr. Gianaris, of Queens. But the company wanted to know: What would happen then?So on Feb. 8 and then again on Feb. 9, Amazon’s representatives spoke on the phone with Ms. Stewart-Cousins.She told the company’s representatives that Mr. Cuomo was planning to reject Mr. Gianaris. But she could not say precisely what would happen next, the people said. Who would be named in his place?Amazon wanted certainty that the next person selected would not be a roadblock: The fate of its campus could not hang on the whims of an unnamed state senator on a board — the Public Authorities Control Board — that few could name.She did not offer any guarantees, but thought the Senate and the company would be able to work together.“Obviously, the Legislature would have a role to play,” she said in an interview.The next time she heard from Mr. Huseman was Thursday, just as Amazon announced that the deal was dead.“He was saying, look, the political climate was just really, really hard,” Ms. Stewart-Cousins said. “He mentioned the City Council, the City Council speaker, the state, Congresswoman Ocasio-Cortez. The political climate was really rough.”OpinionThe Editorial BoardAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy J. David Goodman[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Amazon on Thursday canceled its plans to build an expansive corporate campus in New York City after facing an unexpectedly fierce backlash from lawmakers, progressive activists and union leaders, who contended that a tech giant did not deserve nearly $3 billion in government incentives.The decision was an abrupt turnabout by Amazon after a much-publicized search for a second headquarters, which had ended with its announcement in November that it would open two new sites — one in Queens, with more than 25,000 jobs, and another in Virginia.Amazon’s retreat was a blow to Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and Mayor Bill de Blasio, damaging their effort to further diversify the city’s economy by making it an inviting location for the technology industry.The agreement to lure Amazon to Long Island City, Queens, had stirred intense debate in New York about the use of public subsidies to entice wealthy companies, the rising cost of living in gentrifying neighborhoods, and the city’s very identity.“A number of state and local politicians have made it clear that they oppose our presence and will not work with us to build the type of relationships that are required to go forward,” Amazon said in a statement.The company made its decision late Wednesday, after growing increasingly concerned that the backlash in New York showed no sign of abating and was tarnishing its image beyond the city, according to two people with knowledge of the discussions inside the company.In recent days, Mr. de Blasio had tried to reach Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, according to one official. But Mr. Bezos did not speak with him, nor with Mr. Cuomo.[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The company’s decision was at least a short-term win for insurgent progressive politicians led by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, whose upset victory last year occurred in the western corner of Queens where Amazon had planned its site.Her race galvanized the party’s left flank, which mobilized against the deal, helped swing New York’s Legislature into Democratic hands, and struck fear in the hearts of some local politicians.On Thursday, Ms. Ocasio-Cortez seemed to revel in Amazon’s decision, writing on Twitter that “anything is possible.”Not only progressive activists took issue with the Amazon deal: Michael R. Bloomberg, who championed New York City as a technology hub while mayor, questioned the incentive package earlier this month.The company also had its supporters — in the city’s business community, among some unions and within nearby public housing, where some residents were hopeful that the project would bring jobs. A pair of polls showed broad support around the city and state.But in the end, it was not enough to persuade the company to ride out the torrent of negative attention.Amazon did not inform the governor or the mayor of its decision to pull out until Thursday morning, shortly before the company posted its announcement online.Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio reacted in starkly different ways. The governor blamed the newly emboldened Democrats who now control the State Senate for derailing the project.“A small group of politicians put their own narrow political interests above their community — which poll after poll showed overwhelmingly supported bringing Amazon to Long Island City — the state’s economic future and the best interests of the people of this state,” the governor said in a statement.For his part, Mr. de Blasio turned on the company after having steadfastly backed the deal.“We gave Amazon the opportunity to be a good neighbor and do business in the greatest city in the world,” Mr. de Blasio said. “Instead of working with the community, Amazon threw away that opportunity.”The mayor and the governor, who only rarely find common cause, met Monday in Albany and discussed how to save the deal, which had appeared increasingly imperiled, according to a person familiar with the conversations. After the meeting, Mr. de Blasio spoke to a senior Amazon executive by phone and was told that the company remained committed to New York, the person said.Both the mayor’s and the governor’s offices reassured Amazon executives that, despite the vocal criticism, the deal they had negotiated would be approved. But the company appeared upset at even a moderate level of resistance, said the person, who, like many of the people describing private conversations at the company and with elected officials, did so on the condition of anonymity.A decisive moment appeared to come when the Senate Democrats selected Senator Michael Gianaris of Queens for a state board with the power to veto the deal. Mr. Gianaris had once supported the efforts to bring Amazon to New York, but became a vocal critic after learning the details of the plan.Over time, opposition to Amazon had spread from the specifics of the deal to the company’s corporate practices. Elected officials and activists in New York drew attention to the company’s anti-union stance and its work with federal immigration officials — positions unpopular with Democratic leaders across the country.Amazon executives felt they had been open to answering questions, submitting to two City Council hearings, with another planned for later this month. They had begun working on a hiring plan, people with knowledge of the planning said, and were encouraged by public support in two polls of voters, conducted by Quinnipiac University and Siena College. While the subsidies were less popular, the deal to bring Amazon, and tens of thousands of jobs, was welcomed by a variety of groups.On Wednesday, Mr. Cuomo had even brokered a meeting between Amazon executives and union leaders who had been resistant to the deal — including from the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store union and the Teamsters.“Amazon and the governor and everybody agreed yesterday on a way to move forward,” said Stuart Appelbaum of the retail union, who was part of the meeting. “Shame on them. The arrogance of saying ‘do it my way or not at all.”’Some unions supported the deal, and even those opposed had appeared willing to work with Amazon if the company agreed to not work against the unionization of its employees in New York. An Amazon representative, during one council hearing, pointedly said the company would not agree to such terms.[Column: For once, Amazon loses a popularity contest.]Kathryn S. Wylde, the chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, an influential business group, said the reception Amazon had received sent a “pretty bad message to the job creators” of the city and the world.“How can anyone be surprised?” Ms. Wylde said. “We competed successfully, made a deal and spent the last three months trashing our new partner.”When Amazon announced plans for a second headquarters in September 2017, it promised 50,000 high-paying jobs and billions in investment for a community that would be coequal to its home in Seattle. The voracious company, whose ambitions outgrew the number of people it could hire in the Pacific Northwest, set off a nationwide frenzy, with more than 200 cities making bids.Amazon decided last fall that no one city could provide the number of tech workers it needed and split the headquarters in two.The company has long been willing to take short-term pain in exchange for maintaining long-term leverage. In Seattle, Amazon’s relationship with officials soured as it grew to become the city’s dominant employer. Last year, when the Seattle City Council proposed taxing large employers to pay for homeless services and affordable housing, Amazon took a rare public stance and threatened to halt its expansion. In the end, the city retreated and got rid of even a pared back version of the tax it had adopted.The Seattle relationship looms over Amazon’s growth plans. As much as Amazon wanted New York’s talent, it was not worth facing years of opposition on broad swaths of issues.Instead, Amazon will grow across its tech hubs, which include large outposts in cities like Boston, Austin, Tex., and Vancouver, British Columbia, as well as smaller ones in Pittsburgh and Detroit. It will lose the value it has said it finds in having employees in a centralized corporate campus, but will maintain flexibility to grow where and when it wants.Even in New York, where Amazon already has 5,000 workers, about half at a distribution center on Staten Island, the company still plans to add more jobs, particularly in advertising, fashion and web services.Mr. Gianaris said the collapse of the deal in Queens revealed the company’s unwillingness to work with the community it had wanted to join.“Like a petulant child, Amazon insists on getting its way or takes its ball and leaves,” said Mr. Gianaris, whose district includes Long Island City. “The only thing that happened here is that a community that was going to be profoundly affected by their presence started asking questions.“Even by their own words,” he added, pointing to the company’s statement on the pullout, “Amazon admits they will grow their presence in New York without their promised subsidies. So what was all this really about?”While small protests greeted the company after its initial announcement in November, the first inkling that opposition had taken hold among the city’s Democratic politicians came during a hostile City Council hearing the next month. Protesters filled the seats, unfurled banners and chanted against the company. Not a single council member spoke up in defense of the deal or the company.Company executives fared no better at their second appearance, in January, though supporters, lobbyists and consultants were better prepared. Unions supporting the deal, including the powerful 32BJ Service Employees International Union and the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York, staged a rally outside City Hall immediately after one held by opponents.[Amazon had a ‘productive meeting’ with union leaders, just a day before they pulled out.]Still, the company did not hire a single New Yorker as an employee to represent it in discussions with local groups. Its main representatives traveled between Washington and Manhattan, and only one had moved into an apartment to work with community members and foster support.Gianna Cerbone, who owns a restaurant several blocks from what would have been the main Amazon campus, said the demise of the deal was a major blow to people who need jobs and local businesses that would have benefited.“I’m really upset because I don’t think they realized what they did,” she said of the elected officials who had opposed the plan. “And they’re proud of it? They think they did something lovely? They wanted the political gain, they should have done it in a different way. They get put into office for us, not to work for themselves.”An earlier version of this article referred incorrectly to the district where Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez was elected. While she represents a neighboring district, it is not the district where the Amazon headquarters were planned. (Carolyn Maloney represents the 12th Congressional District.)Corey Kilgannon, Patrick McGeehan, William Neuman, Vivian Wang and Karen Weise contributed reporting.OpinionKara SwisherOpinionKenneth T. JacksonAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The Trump administration is nearing a trade deal with China that would roll back tariffs on both sides of the Pacific, Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT write.What America could get:• The deal would “require Beijing to make big purchases of American agricultural and energy goods and to lower some barriers that prevent American companies from operating in China.”• The potential agreement “would expand markets for American financial services firms and farmers, in part by requiring that China buy large amounts of energy and farm goods, like liquid natural gas and soybeans.”• “The Trump administration has also been pushing China to accept an enforcement mechanism that would enable the United States to quickly reinstate tariffs if Beijing fails to live up to specific promises.”And China:• “In return, the United States would most likely drop its tariffs on at least $200 billion of the $250 billion worth of Chinese imports currently subject to American levies.”• Beijing is also “pushing for the elimination of all of the Trump tariffs, a person with knowledge of the negotiations said.””But “early details indicate it would do little to substantively change the way China has long done business and would not force Beijing to curtail cyber theft or the subsidies that the administration complains create an uneven playing field for American companies.”• “The language aimed at China’s discrimination against foreign companies, like its antimonopoly law or standard-setting processes, is probably too vague to be enforceable,” according to an unidentified source.• “The pact also doesn’t alter China’s tight restrictions on data,” and “many of the big purchases that Beijing is promising would occur over a number of years, which could give China further leverage.”More: How Apple prevailed in the trade war. And why President Trump’s battle hasn’t helped narrow the trade deficit.The Chinese telecom giant plans to take the U.S. government to court for banning federal agencies from using its products, Ray Zhong and Paul Mozur of the NYT report.• “The move could be aimed at forcing the United States government to more publicly make its case against the Chinese equipment maker.”• “It is part of a broad push by Huawei to defend itself against a campaign led by the United States to undermine the company, which Washington sees as a security threat.”• Huawei’s lawsuit will challenge a section in a defense-spending law that blocks federal agencies from using its equipment. The company will argue that the provision amounts to a “bill of attainder,” or a legislative act that singles out a person or group for punishment without trial.• Huawei’s C.F.O., Meng Wanzhou, has already sued Canadian authorities for arresting her and moving to extradite her to the U.S.• Not everyone thinks that Ms. Meng’s legal action is sensible. “The quest for justice is everyone’s right,” Tim Culpan of Bloomberg Opinion writes, “yet Huawei risks coming off as belligerent instead of the calm and trustworthy partner it’s trying to portray.”On Friday, the Trump re-election campaign — including its manager, Brad Parscale, and an adviser, Newt Gingrich — called for a nationwide “wholesale” 5G network, that would allow the government to control the spectrum and find a way to share it with carriers.“A 5G wholesale market would drive down costs and provide access to millions of Americans who are currently underserved,” Kayleigh McEnany, the campaign’s national press secretary, told Politico.The news was met with surprise as it’s at odds with current White House policy. Axios says it was unable to find telecom policy advisers inside the Trump administration “who knew in advance from the Trump campaign that it would make this announcement.” The telecoms industry has long argued against nationalized 5G networks.The campaign later walked back its comments. “The White House sets the policy on 5G and all issues,” Ms. McEnany said in a statement. “The campaign fully supports the president’s priorities and his policy agenda.”But it raises concerns about what happens next. The administration previously contemplated taking a role in 5G, as detailed in a National Security Council memo leaked early last year. Brendan Carr, an F.C.C. commissioner, called such a move “China-like nationalization.”In the wake of Amazon pulling out of plans for a campus in New York City, the NYT studied the tactics the company has used to drive hard bargains all over the country.• Amazon closed its only warehouse in Texas after state officials pushed the company to pay nearly $270 million in back taxes in 2010. Texas eventually waived the taxes in exchange for new warehouses.• South Carolina officials denied Amazon a sales tax break in 2010, but gave the company an exemption after it threatened to stop hiring there.• The company has collected over $2.4 billion in taxpayer subsidies for its locations, according to Good Jobs First, a nonprofit that tracks corporate tax breaks.• “They are just as cutthroat as can be,” Alex Perlstein, vice president of Market Street Services, told the NYT.• And Amazon has no regrets, according to the NYT: “Asked recently by a business publication if Amazon would change anything about the headquarters search in retrospect, Holly Sullivan, the Amazon executive who led the search, said: ‘You know, no. I think it was rewarding for us internally.’”Meanwhile, the NYT editorial board supports New York officials’ efforts to lure Amazon back: “Progressives shouldn’t stand athwart progress, yelling stop.”More: How Hollywood disrupted Jeff Bezos’s life as Amazon sought to disrupt its business. And Mr. Bezos’s security chief is said to be preparing a 90-page report accusing the National Enquirer’s parent company of running its exposé to curry favor with Saudi investors.A collection of the top tech minds in the country assembled at the NYT’s New Work Summit last week in Half Moon Bay, Calif. Here’s what some of them had to say about the future of artificial intelligence regulation:“The idea that these companies who are not accountable to us or elected by us should get to decide sort of the new safeguards of society, that seems like the wrong way to do it,” said Sam Altman, the president of Y Combinator.“We think democratically elected governments should be in the business of regulating technology companies — not the other way around,” Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president, said.“We’re fans of regulation when it’s smart regulation,” Kent Walker, Google’s chief legal officer, said. “What do I mean by that? So, regulation that starts out with a really crisp definition of what’s the problem you’re trying to solve? That is then narrowly tailored to solve that problem and minimize blowback and side effects.”“I’ve found the European Commission to be very well-reasoned and thoughtful in their approach, and really putting consumers first,” Evan Spiegel of Snapchat said. “The more that companies can align with the government to do what’s right for customers, I think everyone will win there.”A fierce lobbying battle has arisen over an unlikely product, according to the NYT: human excrement, and more specifically its use in treating disease.• The skirmish is over the future of fecal microbiota transplants, a therapy that “transfers fecal matter from healthy donors into the bowels of ailing patients, restoring the beneficial works of the community of gut microbes that have been decimated by antibiotics.” The treatment is especially effective in treating Clostridioides difficile, also known as C. diff, a debilitating bacterial infection.• “At the heart of the controversy is a question of classification: Are the fecal microbiota that cure C. diff a drug, or are they more akin to organs, tissues and blood products that are transferred from the healthy to treat the sick?”• Most material currently used in fecal transplants comes from OpenBiome, a public stool bank in Massachusetts. But the F.D.A. has recently increased oversight that raised prices.• Several drug companies, including Rebiotix and Seres Therapeutics, have raised tens of millions of dollars from investors and begun lobbying the F.D.A. (A critic told the NYT they were the “poop drug cartel.”) The market for drug-based treatments of C. diff is estimated to eventually reach about $1.7 billion.• “At stake, some researchers says, is the future of pioneering therapies that harness the human microbiome — the trillions of organisms that colonize the body and are increasingly seen as critical for healthy brain development and immune function.”Ray Kelvin, the founder and C.E.O. of the British fashion chain Ted Baker, resigned amid accusations of inappropriate behavior.Fabio Schvartsman “temporarily” stepped down as Vale’s C.E.O. in the wake of a deadly dam burst in Brazil.KKR hired Kate Richdale, most recently the chairwoman of Goldman Sachs’s investment banking team in Asia, as its head of strategy and business development in the same region.John Havens stepped down as chairman of the hedge fund Napier Park Capital after being charged in a prostitution ring bust.The insurer Aviva named Maurice Tulloch, the head of its international operations, as its next C.E.O.Deals• Lyft publicly filed for an I.P.O. on Friday, revealing surging revenues but nearly $1 billion in losses. (NYT)• Nissan executives reportedly told Carlos Ghosn that the Japanese government would back their bid to block his proposed merger of the carmaker with its corporate sibling, Renault. (FT)• Margrethe Vestager, the E.U.’s competition commissioner, warned governments of the “consequences” of easing merger regulations. (FT)• The hedge fund BlueMountain nominated 12 candidates for the board of PG&E, including the lawyer Kenneth Feinberg and a veteran Democratic politician, Phil Angelides. (NYT)• The maker of Instant Pot agreed to merge with the parent company of Pyrex and CorningWare. (WSJ)Politics and policy• President Trump publicly criticized Jay Powell, the chair of the Federal Reserve, over the weekend. Mr. Powell’s European counterparts aren’t getting much love from their governments, either. (Bloomberg)• American intelligence officials increasingly emphasize economic, not national security, issues in their briefings to the president. (NYT)• A new poll showed that Americans don’t like socialism but want the federal government to become more active in helping them. (CNBC)• Representative Jerry Nadler, the chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, said he will request documents from more than 60 people, including Donald Trump Jr. and the C.F.O. of the Trump Organization. (NYT)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May promised £1.6 billion, or about $2.1 billion, to poorer areas of Britain — and was quickly criticized for trying to buy the support of opposition lawmakers. (Bloomberg)• Pro-Brexit lawmakers outlined three conditions that Mrs. May must meet to win their support for her Brexit deal. (Times of London)Tech• France plans to introduce a five percent digital tax on the revenue of about 30 internet giants. (Bloomberg)• Uber’s chief legal officer is trying to clean up the company before it goes public. (NYT)• North Korean hackers hit over 100 American and allied targets as President Trump met with Kim Jong-un last week. (NYT)• Amazon reportedly plans to open a chain of grocery stores in the U.S. that would be separate from its Whole Foods brand. (WSJ)• Tesla says it will unveil a new S.U.V., the Model Y, on March 14. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Carlos Ghosn’s lawyer is using a new legal strategy, and thinks it’s possible the auto executive could “be released in the near future.” (Reuters)• What it’s like to work as a comment moderator on a far right website. (NYT Op-Ed)• Wells Fargo reached a $240 million settlement with its U.S. shareholders over the creation of millions of unauthorized customer accounts by its employees. (Reuters)• The first American spacecraft capable of carrying astronauts since the retirement of the space shuttles launched Saturday, and successfully docked with International Space Station last night. (NYT, BBC)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe ShiftBy Kevin RooseOver the past few months, a fierce debate has erupted in Silicon Valley over whether large technology companies like Amazon, Google and Microsoft should join forces with the United States military, along with agencies like Immigration and Customs Enforcement.The debate has largely been conducted along ethical lines.On one side are tech executives and many government officials, who argue that at a time when advanced technologies like artificial intelligence and machine learning are poised to reshape top issues like drone warfare or border security, American tech giants have a patriotic duty to pitch in.Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, summed up this view last year: “If big tech companies are going to turn their back on the U.S. Department of Defense, this country is going to be in trouble.”On the other side are groups of employees at those companies, including many anti-Trump progressives, who don’t want their tools to be used for drone warfare, immigrant detention and other projects they consider immoral. This side took a stand at Microsoft last month when a group of employees wrote an open letter to the company’s top executives demanding that they abandon an Army contract that would adapt HoloLens, the company’s augmented-reality headsets, for use by soldiers on the battlefield.“We did not sign up to develop weapons, and we demand a say in how our work is used,” the Microsoft employees wrote.This is a debate worth having. But there is a more pragmatic question swirling around it, one surprisingly few people are asking. Namely: Could Big Tech’s decision to pursue controversial defense and law enforcement contracts be a financial mistake?As business deals, some of these contracts seem like no-brainers. Microsoft’s HoloLens deal is worth about $500 million — less than 1 percent of the company’s 2018 revenue, but a meaningful sum nonetheless. Amazon, IBM, Microsoft and Oracle are all battling over a Defense Department cloud-computing contract, known as Project JEDI, that will be worth as much as $10 billion to the winning bidder.But these contracts may be less lucrative than they appear. And, in fact, they could come with enormous hidden costs in the form of damaged reputations, recruiting problems and customer boycotts that could swamp any short-term gains.To explain why, let’s consider one of the most notorious military contracts of the past century.In 1965, Dow Chemical, a Michigan-based chemicals manufacturer, was awarded a $5 million Department of Defense contract to produce napalm, a highly incendiary chemical used by American troops during the Vietnam War.transcriptHosted by Michael Barbaro, produced by Rachel Quester and Clare Toeniskoetter, and edited by Lisa TobinShould Big Tech partner with the Pentagon? We examine a cautionary tale.michael barbaroFrom The New York Times, I’m Michael Barbaro. This is “The Daily.” Today: Across Silicon Valley, tech companies are pursuing contracts with the U.S. military. Kevin Roose on a cautionary tale of where that can lead. It’s Wednesday, March 6.kevin rooseSo I’m a tech columnist. I spend a lot of time talking with and looking at the big tech companies and where they’re going. And one of the most interesting threads that’s come up in the past year or so is this question of how Silicon Valley should engage with the government, and with the military, specifically. And I think we’re at a point right now where the government is saying, we want the things that you’re building. We want you to be part of our modernization efforts.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseAnd within some of these companies there’s a growing divide between the management of the companies and what they want for their business, and some of the people actually building this technology — the engineers who are working on these advanced systems that are in hot demand by the military and other government agencies. And we just saw this play out in a pretty meaningful way at Microsoft.michael barbaroWhat happened there, exactly? So last year Microsoft signed a contract with the Department of Defense to use a technology called HoloLens in the Army.archived recordingGood morning, everyone. A few years ago, we started asking ourselves, could we make things so simple that technology would just disappear?kevin rooseAnd HoloLens was originally developed — it’s kind of like a headset for augmented reality.archived recordingCould we place your digital content right into your world, right into your life, with more reality than ever before?kevin rooseI saw a demo of this a couple years ago, and they were touting it as the next generation of gaming.michael barbaroMm-hmm.archived recordingWelcome to a new era of Windows. Welcome to Windows Holographic.kevin roosePeople were wearing HoloLens, and you would be swinging your imaginary sword at imaginary monsters. But it all looked like it was happening right there in your living room.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseAnd last year, Microsoft signed a contract to develop HoloLens technology for use on the battlefield — to give soldiers the ability to wear these headsets and get information about their surroundings, and to increase the lethality of the soldiers on the battlefield.michael barbaroSo this technology will specifically be deployed within the military so that American soldiers are better at killing the enemy?kevin rooseThat’s the way it’s described in the contract, yes.michael barbaroAnd so, I’m guessing that this was something that Microsoft engineers objected to?archived recordingAnd then there’s Microsoft. They’re receiving backlash from their own employees over new groundbreaking technology.kevin rooseWell, a few of them did. But they did it pretty vocally.archived recordingYeah, so more than 150 Microsoft employees signed a letter demanding that the company cancel a $480 million contract to build a HoloLens for the Pentagon saying they, quote —kevin roose“Dear Satya Nadella and Brad Smith: We are a global coalition of Microsoft workers, and we refuse to create technology for warfare and oppression.” And it goes on. And basically, they argue that this crossed the line into weapons development — that this was basically taking something that they had built, and turned it into something that was designed to help soldiers on the battlefield kill other soldiers.michael barbaroNot what they decided to do.kevin rooseRight. Not their intent, not what they were told they were going to be working on, and not something they were comfortable with.michael barbaroAnd Kevin, thinking about this, it’s hard to imagine that the U.S. military would not use U.S. technology, American-made technology like this, in warfare. That seems inevitable, doesn’t it?kevin rooseWell, right. I mean as long as there has been a U.S. tech industry, there’s been a partnership with the U.S. government and with the military. I mean, the original internet came out of a Defense Department project.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseAnd since then, lots of advances in technology have been spurred by this collaboration between the Pentagon and Silicon Valley. And a lot of these companies already provide technology to the military. I mean, a lot of military computers run Windows’s operating system. But this was a bridge too far for these employees. They say, we’re O.K. basically providing general-use technology, the same stuff that you and I could go and buy. But the specific development of our technology for use in this specific case crosses a line for us, and we don’t want to be a part of it.michael barbaroSo Kevin, what’s interesting to you about this story?kevin rooseWell, I’m interested in the ethical debate around the use of artificial intelligence and other technologies. But I’m also a business reporter. I think this is a decision that is not just being made along ethical lines. These companies are also thinking about their businesses and the amount of money and the profitability of developing these systems for the military. So I wanted to look at it along those lines, as well. Let’s just bracket the ethical discussion for a second and say, does this make financial sense?michael barbaroWell, not just bracket it, right? Isn’t a company often going to make decisions about moral dilemmas based on the implications to their finances?kevin rooseExactly. These are not philanthropies or think tanks. These are for-profit corporations that generally operate on a cost-benefit calculation. And so just on that plane, I wanted to see, does this make sense for them? [MUSIC] And so, I did a little bit of digging, and I went back about 50 years in history, and I found an example of a company that sold something to the military and later came to regret it.michael barbaroWhich was what?kevin rooseIt’s the case of Dow Chemical. In 1965, Dow Chemical is this small, little-known chemicals company based in Michigan. They make lots of different things — household chemicals, agricultural chemicals.archived recordingNow, at your favorite grocery store, the most amazing food wrap ever developed!kevin rooseThey were probably best known for making Saran Wrap.michael barbaroHeard of it.archived recording (speaker 1)Have you tried Saran Wrap? It really is amazing! And look, Saran Wrap clings like magic!archived recording (speaker 2)Saran Wrap is a product of the Dow Chemical Company.archived recording (speaker 3)[JET PLANES AND EXPLOSIONS] Vietnam. United States helicopter gunships backed up ground forces in a strong assault on a Viet Cong position —kevin rooseMeanwhile, the Vietnam War is happening. And in 1965, Dow Chemical wins a contract with the Department of Defense to produce a new chemical called napalm B. And napalm, which is a highly flammable gel that binds and sticks to things and then burns them — had been in use. But napalm B was the new formulation, and the military was very excited in using this in Vietnam.archived recordingTroops followed up the advantage gained by the air support to knock out the V.C.kevin rooseThey thought it had a lot of promise on the battlefield. It was hard to contain and hard to put out. It was a very effective form of weaponry — a very horrible form of weaponry. And it produced very, very bad burns on people. They would basically be burned alive. And so, there’s not much noise about this for the first little while. And then Americans start seeing images from the Vietnam War. And for a lot of people, this is their first time seeing the effects of napalm.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseMost famously, there’s this photograph — you’ve probably seen it. It won the Pulitzer Prize. It is a photograph of a 9-year-old girl who’s been badly burned by a napalm weapon.archived recording (martin luther king jr.)So far we may have killed a million of them, mostly children.kevin rooseAnd it sort of shocks the American public, and it galvanizes the anti-war movement.archived recording (martin luther king jr.)What do they think as we test out our latest weapons on them, just as the Germans tested out new medicine and new tortures in the concentration camps of Europe?archived recording[CROWDS CHANTING] No more napalm! No more napalm! No more napalm! No more napalm!kevin rooseAnd they decide to go after the use of napalm by U.S. armed forces. And the way that they do that is by going after Dow Chemical.archived recording[CROWDS CHANTING]archived recording (speaker 1)This is Monday afternoon, November 20, on the San Jose State college campus. What you’re watching is the result of a demonstration that began about an hour ago.kevin rooseThey staged demonstrations outside the company’s headquarters, and they go to dozens of colleges where Dow was recruiting students to come work for them.michael barbaroHm.archived recordingThe professors against the war and the Students for a Democratic Society had marched in front of the administration building to protest the recruitment on this campus by Dow Chemical Company of employees.kevin rooseAnd they protest the recruiting sessions. They have signs like “Dow deforms children,” “Dow deals death.”archived recordingThey’re not allowing anyone in. Like, the only people they’re allowing in are those people that are connected with Dow. [PROTESTERS SHOUTING]kevin rooseMy favorite story from this period is that the Dow recruiters — the people that would go to campus to talk to the students — they would get locked up in classrooms. They would get, like, held hostage by the activists. And at one point, one of the recruiters got so used to this that he started bringing a sandwich in his briefcase, so that if the inevitable happened and he got locked in a room with a bunch of angry protesters —michael barbaroHe would survive the day.kevin rooseHe would at least have lunch.michael barbaroSo this sounds like a complete corporate nightmare — that your company is so associated with war and with death, and not with the household product that you make — Saran Wrap.kevin rooseRight. And Dow was particularly offended by this because napalm was a very small part of its business. I mean, it accounted, I think, for a half of 1 percent of its annual sales. And yet it had sort of come to take over its corporate identity. So there was some internal discussion, there were some debates within the company and at the board level about what to do, whether to stop manufacturing napalm. And there were lots of reasons for that. I mean, there were customer boycotts. They did take a financial hit. And they had to do a lot to counter their corporate reputation as a warmonger. But what they really worried about was recruiting. They worried that on these visits to college campuses they weren’t going to get the best people. They weren’t going to get the scientists and the engineers who would help them in the years ahead. And as a result, they would have long-term costs, not just financial, but also in terms of what they were missing out on.michael barbaroThe future employee with moral objections to napalm, who doesn’t come work at Dow Chemical and make the next blockbuster product.kevin rooseRight. But ultimately, they decided to stand their ground. They said, we have a duty to produce napalm for the U.S. government. It’s our patriotic obligation, and we can withstand the controversy.michael barbaroDow Chemical feels like such an extreme case, and it feels quite different from what’s going on with these tech companies today.kevin rooseYeah, absolutely. These are not totally comparable. I mean, the Vietnam War, at this point, was extremely unpopular. You had these horrific images coming back. There’s no good use for napalm, right? There’s no pro-social, healthy use for napalm. It’s a weapon. Whereas a lot of these technologies — A.I., facial recognition, image recognition, augmented reality — these can all be used for very productive and healthy things. It’s only when you put them into a certain context that they can be used for harm.michael barbaroAnd that would seem to be the case for most tech companies, right? They are developing products not explicitly for the military. They just happen to be used that way.kevin rooseExactly.archived recordingArtificial intelligence, drones, warfare and Google — it’s a mixture that caused an uproar inside the tech giant, where the early motto was “Don’t be evil.”kevin rooseThere was a big controversy at Google last year, about this military contract known as Project Maven.archived recordingGoogle is developing artificial intelligence to analyze drone video data.kevin rooseAnd this was a Defense Department program that basically used A.I. and image-recognition technology to interpret video images.michael barbaroMm-hmm.kevin rooseSo the same kind of A.I. that Google would use in Google Photos, or in its self-driving car unit to recognize images out on the road —archived recordingIt would apparently be used as part of a drone program.kevin roose— could be used to, for example, improve the targeting of drone strikes to make drone strikes more accurate, to be able to recognize certain people or certain buildings and be able to direct a drone at that target specifically.michael barbaroAgain, not what Google engineers probably ever thought the technology would be used for.kevin rooseExactly, I mean, they didn’t sign up for that. And some of them didn’t even know that this was happening.archived recordingThousands of Google workers now protesting Google’s involvement in a Pentagon drone program.kevin rooseSo there was a big uproar. There was lots of heated internal meetings.archived recordingAt least 10, maybe 12 employees did resign.kevin rooseSome resignations —michael barbaroWow. People quit the company over it.kevin rooseYeah, people quit the company over it.archived recordingMeantime, thousands of Google employees have signed a letter protesting the company’s participation in an artificial intelligence project by the Pentagon.kevin rooseThere was a petition that was signed by thousands of Google employees.archived recordingQuote, “We believe that Google should not be in the business of war. Therefore we asked that Project Maven be canceled.”kevin rooseCalling for the company to not only not enter into this contract, but to stop making tools of weaponry altogether. And ultimately —archived recordingTech giant Google will end a project with the Pentagon.kevin rooseGoogle bowed to the pressure. They pulled the contract. They said they wouldn’t renew it. They put out a statement saying, we’ll still work with the military on other projects, but we’re not going to manufacture weapons and weapons-related technology. And that seemed to quiet the unrest. [MUSIC]michael barbaroI feel like people would be surprised that a huge tech company like Google would back down like that.kevin rooseYeah, I mean, it does speak to the difference between a conventional contractor like Dow Chemical and these tech companies. I think there are three main differences there. The first is that these companies are beloved. They have loyal followings and they don’t want to do anything to upset that. The second is that these companies are very idealistic. And in Silicon Valley, this is a big deal. Companies market themselves not just as profitable enterprises, but as humanitarian projects. And anything that compromises that hurts them.michael barbaroRight. World-changers.kevin rooseTotally. And I think the biggest difference is that employees at these companies — especially the engineers who work on very specialized projects like A.I. development — have a ton of leverage, because there are not very many of them, they make a ton of money, and they’re really hard to recruit. If a couple of chemical engineers walk out of Dow Chemical in protest, they can probably find some more where that came from. But if hundreds or thousands of A.I. engineers are upset about a project that Google is working on, that’s a real threat to their business. It doesn’t take many people staging a protest, or threatening to walk out to really get the attention of senior leadership.michael barbaroSo these three differences that you just laid out explain why Dow didn’t back down, despite images of dying children affected by their products, whereas Google did back down, long, long before anything like that happened to it.kevin rooseRight. And I want to be clear: What happened at Google was the exception, not the rule. This is not happening in any vast quantity across the tech industry. At Microsoft, for example, they came right out and said, we appreciate the objections of this small group of employees. They can move elsewhere in the company if they want, but we’re committed to seeing this contract through. And they’ve defended themselves by saying, we have a patriotic duty to provide technology to the military. We think that we can advocate for the ethical use of technologies like AI if we’re at the table in these discussions. And they say that basically, these technologies could be good. These could save lives on the battlefield. The army has said it wants to use HoloLens not just for combat training, but for things like measuring vital signs, and monitoring soldiers for concussions, and having some sort of hearing protection on people’s ears. So those are the kinds of arguments they’re making to justify staying in these contracts.michael barbaroSo the argument here being that engineers who came to these companies to do good, having their technology used by the military does not necessarily mean not doing good.kevin rooseYeah, I mean, that’s one of the arguments that they’re making, is that, basically, if the U.S. military doesn’t have the best technology available on the market, our adversaries will, and we will be endangered as a result.michael barbaroI guess the question is, do the engineers buy that argument?kevin rooseWell, some of them probably do. But as we’ve seen, a number of them don’t. [MUSIC]michael barbaroSo Kevin, we started by talking about this intersection of the moral and the financial as these tech companies navigate this question of, should they work with the military? What’s your understanding in Silicon Valley about how these companies are thinking about that?kevin rooseSo I think a lot of these companies have really shifted their view on this in the last couple of years. A lot of Silicon Valley companies used to just think of themselves as toolmakers, right? We build this stuff, and we put it out into the world, and people use it. And our responsibility, basically, stops at the moment of sale.archived recording (mark zuckerberg)To me, entrepreneurship is about creating change, not just creating companies.kevin rooseAnd now, I think we’re seeing that these companies are being held responsible by the public and by their own employees, not just for the tools they’re building, but for how they’re being used in the world. And this is not just about the military.archived recordingAt this hour some 300 programmers are threatening to leave Microsoft unless the tech giant drops its contract with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency, known as ICE.kevin rooseI mean, also, companies are being scrutinized for working with ICE or working with law enforcement.archived recordingAn Amazon worker is pushing the company to stop selling facial recognition technology to law enforcement.kevin rooseSocial media companies are being held responsible for bad things that happen on their platforms.archived recordingFacebook defending Alex Jones this morning, saying the platform will continue to allow the video blogger to run video on its site, even as it claims to crack down on fake news.kevin rooseThis is really happening across technology. And as technology embeds itself into every part of our lives, we’re seeing that these companies are having to make new kinds of decisions. It’s not just a dollars-and-cents profit-and-loss calculation anymore. They also have to consider what might happen out in the world once they release these technologies.michael barbaroWhich is another way of saying that the morality element of this is now playing a much bigger role than it has in the past, and perhaps is not beating out financial, but rivaling it?kevin rooseIt’s certainly part of the discussion now in a way it hasn’t been before. It’s not just about how much money we’ll make, or how many resources it will take. It’s about what we’re building, and why we’re building it, and who we’re selling it to. [MUSIC]michael barbaroKevin, thank you very much.kevin rooseThank you for having me.Dow was not known as a defense contractor — in fact, until its Pentagon contract, the business was best known for making industrial chemicals and household plastics like Saran Wrap.But over the next few years, as Americans began seeing gruesome images of South Vietnamese children with horrific napalm burns, the antiwar movement set its sights on the company.Activists boycotted Dow Chemical’s products, staged protests at its recruiting events on college campuses and barraged its executives with accusations of unethical war profiteering. (One demonstration outside the company’s annual shareholder meeting featured signs like “Dow Know-How in Every Drop of Napalm.”) Dow Chemical executives dug in their heels. They claimed that napalm was a small part of the company’s overall business, and that it was the company’s duty to provide necessary materials to the military.But the company’s pleas of patriotism were drowned out by the antiwar opposition. As Robert M. Neer explains in his book “Napalm,” Dow Chemical’s reputation plummeted as a result of its napalm contract. Its recruiting ability suffered, and its marketing department was forced to embark on a long and expensive campaign to win back the public’s trust.“We went from being a company that made Saran Wrap to keep food fresh to a kind of war machine,” the company’s former chief executive Andrew Liveris said in 2006.Dow Chemical stopped making napalm for the military in 1969, just four years after it had begun. But the reputational damage haunted the company for decades. (Dow Chemical merged with DuPont in 2017; the company is still a defense contractor, but it produces mainly agricultural and industrial chemicals.)All told, the $5 million napalm contract most likely cost Dow Chemical billions of dollars. And it was the kind of unforced error that could have been avoided if company executives had listened to early signs of opposition, done some risk analysis and changed course.Today’s biggest tech companies are in a similar spot. Many of them, such as Amazon and Microsoft, are among the most beloved brands in the world. They employ lots of conscientious, idealistic engineers whose skills are highly valuable, giving them considerable leverage in discussions about company values. And they are operating in an era of heightened consumer sensitivity — in which one misstep can tarnish a brand for years.Tech companies aren’t making anything as obviously harmful as napalm. In fact, supporters of these deals argue that some of the technologies being offered to the military, such as image-recognition algorithms that can help better target drone strikes, could save civilian lives.But the truth is that tech companies have absolutely no idea how the government will use their products in the future — and how the political landscape might shift, throwing them into an unwanted spotlight.In some ways, Silicon Valley tech companies face the same choice Dow Chemical faced in 1965: Accept controversial government contracts and risk a damaging backlash, or leave those deals to conventional defense contractors and protect their reputations.Already, there are signs of trouble on the horizon. At Stanford, fliers recently appeared on campus walls urging students not to work for Amazon, Microsoft, Palantir and other companies with reported contracts with ICE and law enforcement agencies. And artificial intelligence experts caution that the stigma of being seen as a war profiteer could repel idealistic recruits for years to come.“Top A.I. talent doesn’t want to work for Lockheed Martin,” said Jack Clark, the policy director of OpenAI, a nonprofit artificial intelligence lab.In fact, in today’s corporate operating environment, turning down controversial military and government contracts could be a selling point.Recently, I talked with Rana el Kaliouby, a co-founder of Affectiva, an “artificial emotional intelligence” start-up. Ms. el Kaliouby, whose software uses A.I. to track human emotions, had several early offers from government agencies, including a venture fund backed by the Central Intelligence Agency, that wanted to use the product to improve their surveillance capabilities.Even though the company needed the money at the time, it turned down the deals. Affectiva has since raised more than $50 million from other, nongovernmental sources, and has made ethical A.I. use a core part of its brand.“We wanted to be trusted,” Ms. el Kaliouby said. “We used the core value of integrity and respecting people’s privacy as a way to weed out use cases.”Take note, tech giants. Turning down controversial military and government contracts won’t doom your business. In fact, in the long run, your shareholders might thank you.Kevin Roose is a columnist for Business and a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. His column, “The Shift,” examines the intersection of technology, business and culture. @kevinroose • FacebookOpinionMargaret O’MaraAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe iPhone app Notes has become the medium of choice for celebrity mea culpas.By Lindsey WeberTo be famous in 2019 one must possess (in addition to talent, or at least popularity) a patina of authenticity and a willingness to admit wrongdoing. Also: an iPhone. Lady Gaga makes for a perfect case study. On Thursday, she sent an apologetic message to her more than 77 million Twitter followers. The singer wanted to let her Little Monsters know that, after renewed criticism of R. Kelly, she had decided to pull a track she had recorded with him in 2013 from streaming music services. “I’m sorry,” she wrote, her words cast against a grayish faux-paper background familiar to Apple users and celebrity news consumers, “both for my poor judgment when I was young, and for not speaking out sooner. I love you.”I stand by anyone who has ever been the victim of sexual assault: pic.twitter.com/67sz4WpV3iHer statement was written using Notes, a free app that is preloaded onto Apple devices for the purpose of storing personal memories and to-do lists. In recent years, though, it has become the medium of choice for celebrity mass communication. The reasons for writing these Notes notes vary, but oftentimes they are mea culpas for public errors. Armie Hammer apologized with a Notes app note for criticizing his peers for posting grief selfies after Stan Lee’s death (“I want to apologize from the bottom of my heart and will be working on my Twitter impulse control”). Kendall Jenner apologized for her clothing line’s insensitive use of the Notorious B.I.G.’s and Tupac Shakur’s likenesses (“we are huge fans of their music”). Logan Paul apologized for videotaping a dead body in Japan (“I intended to raise awareness for suicide and suicide prevention”). Cardi B notably did not apologize for secretly marrying Offset (“at least ya can stop saying i had a baby out of wedlock”). Ariana Grande once apologized for licking a doughnut (“I will strive to be better”).Other public figures who have used Notes to make statements include Taylor Swift, Lena Dunham, Drake, Pete Davidson and Sarah Huckabee Sanders.Part of the medium’s appeal is the ease with which its contents may be shared. Notes app apologies are screenshotted and dispersed, first on Twitter and Instagram, and then in entertainment news reporting. They are embedded into tabloid websites and quoted by magazines, as polished statements coming directly from publicists might be.Zara Rahim, who handled publicity for Vogue before joining The Wing, a women’s co-working space, as its communications director, said that the efficacy of these statements lies not only in their speed but also their appearance. “I can just write this quick note on my Notes app, because it looks like I did it on my phone, have my publicist take a quick glance at it, if I’m smart,” she said, “and then post it directly on my Instagram.”Sometimes statements include grammatical and spelling errors, or profanity, which function (perhaps unwittingly) as rhetorical devices, making the authors seem not only unpretentious but fallibly human. Their notes also frequently employ clichés of spoken apologies: “from the bottom of my heart,” “profoundly,” “I wish I knew then what I know now,” and so on. These tics foster the false sense of intimacy that most social media encourages. Of course, the marks of a direct-from-the source apology may come across as simply impulsive or careless. “The worst Notes app apologies are the ones that clearly were being written stream of consciousness and didn’t get the edit, that were way, way, way too reactive to the point of where there are misspellings,” Allison P. Davis, a pop culture reporter for New York Magazine, said.There are also signs of possible fraudulence. After Taylor Swift said, in a Notes app statement directed at Kanye West and Kim Kardashian West, that she would “very much like to be excluded from this narrative,” people seized on a minute detail of her shared screenshot: the “search” icon in the upper left corner. Its presence suggested that the published note was one of many drafts she had carefully constructed with professional help, thus undercutting her attempt to appear off-the-cuff.The best Notes app statements follow the same guiding principles of any good apology: get in and get out; be direct; don’t try too hard to defend yourself; and (this is a bonus!) maybe say what you’re doing moving forward. “Folks are more likely to give you a second shot if you are just willing to say you made a mistake, and that you are going to do better,” Ms. Rahim said.The brevity of social media pushes most people toward a short and sweet statement. But when 280 characters doesn’t quite cut it, Notes app, or whatever text keeper Androids come with, does the trick. (Jeff Bezos, who has been known to use BlackBerry and Samsung phones, released a divorce announcement this week that appeared to be formatted by a newspaper typesetter.) Sharing a Notes app apology does have its pitfalls. If fans suspect an apology isn’t as heartfelt or genuine as its straight-from-my-personal-device format implies, the entire thing could backfire. But even worse is a completely unapologetic apology. After the music-retreat-for-one-percenters known as Fyre Festival proved to be a scam, Ja Rule, its co-organizer, made sure to relinquish himself of blame: “I truly apologize as this is NOT MY FAULT.” “You want to avoid the Notes app spiral, long and short,” Ms. Rahim said, referring to the age-old tendency to get defensive, blowing out what should be a simple “sorry” into a long and winding tale of excuses.If it seems like the trick to crafting a good Notes app apology isn’t too different from the trick to crafting a regular old apology, that’s because — surprise! — they’re one and the same. A Notes app apology is just written in fear of (or, perhaps, in service of) going viral.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The C.E.O.s of seven huge American banks testified on Capitol Hill yesterday — the first time since 2009 that top Wall Street C.E.O.s have appeared en masse before Congress. Here’s how they responded to a grilling by House Democrats on a variety of issues.Banking rules: The C.E.O.s argued that the financial system is much safer today than it was a decade ago, despite recent easing of regulations.Russia: Brian Moynihan of Bank of America, James Gorman of Morgan Stanley and Mike Corbat of Citigroup all said they had reviewed their account holders for potential Russian money-laundering. Mr. Corbat was the only one to say he “could not comment on ongoing investigations.”Guns: “JPMorgan has refused to adopt a policy to ensure responsible lending to the gun industry, even though you claim that client selection is important,” said Representative Carolyn Maloney. “Will you commit to adopting a formal policy that ensures responsible lending in your bank’s business with the gun industry?” Jamie Dimon responded that JPMorgan has “a very small relationship with gun manufacturers,” and added that he would be willing to consider adopting a formal policy. Mr. Gorman said Morgan Stanley had clamped down on doing business with gunmakers; Citi and Bank of America have already done so.The economy: Asked about the biggest economic threat facing the U.S., Mr. Corbat answered, “Our ability to talk ourselves into the next recession.”Diversity: Not one of the C.E.O.s thought that his successor would be a woman or a person of color.More: Lloyd Blankfein, the former Goldman Sachs C.E.O. who testified at the 2009 hearing, tweeted yesterday, “Boy, I really miss my old job!!!” To curb disinformation and hateful content, Andrew suggests in his latest column that tech giants take a page from the banking industry and make sure they know who they’re doing business with.• “The concept is ‘know your customer’ — or KYC, as it’s called on Wall Street — and it’s straightforward: Given concerns about privacy, security and fraud when it comes to money, no bank is allowed to take on a new customer without verifying its existence and vetting its background.”• “What if social media companies had to verify their users the same way banks do? You’d probably feel more confident that you were interacting with real people and were not just a target for malicious bots.”• “When I broached the idea of applying a ‘know your customer’ principle to their business, several senior executives at social media companies recoiled at the prospect, questioning how they would pull off such a huge feat, especially in emerging markets where many people lack credit cards, and even fixed street addresses.”• But there’s precedent: NextDoor, the social network focused on local communities, requires users to submit a credit card or phone number, which it checks against databases.• A “know your customer” rule could become more important as social networks like Facebook become fully encrypted. Fake users could easily spread misinformation and be harder to stop in an encrypted world — unless there was a way to verify their identities at the outset.More: Facebook says it is expanding its efforts to clamp down on disinformation through steps like expanding fact-checking operations and reducing the reach of groups that share misleading content. It’s also taking steps to minimize unwelcome reminders of dead friends on its network.The ride-hailing giant has told some investors that its forthcoming market debut could value it at up to $100 billion. It’s the first sign from the company about how big its I.P.O. will be.Uber told holders of some convertible bonds that its stock could be valued at $48 to $55 a share. That translates into a valuation of about $90 billion to $100 billion, including the $10 billion it plans to raise during the I.P.O.That’s below the $120 billion that bankers had predicted last year, prompting some commentators to wonder whether Lyft’s struggles in the public markets had forced Uber to lower its aims. (Shares in the smaller ride-hailing company are now down nearly 17 percent from their I.P.O. price.)The big question for Uber, along with many of the other tech companies going public this year: How long will investors tolerate losses? Earlier this year, Uber disclosed that it lost $842 million in the last three months of 2018 alone. And the company acknowledges it will lose money for a long time, though it plans to show a path to profits.We expect to learn more about Uber’s I.P.O. later today, when the company plans to publish a prospectus for the stock sale. Its shares are expected to begin trading next month.More: Uber, Pinterest and other unicorns are reportedly worried about their existing shareholders’ lock-up agreements, which prevent them from selling for several weeks after an I.P.O.Less than 48 hours before Britain’s scheduled departure, the E.U. last night extended the exit deadline until Oct. 31, Stephen Castle and Steven Erlanger of the NYT write.It took nine hours for European leaders to agree on the delay. The six-month extension is more than the three months that the British prime minister, Theresa May, had asked for — and that President Emmanuel Macron of France had pushed for — but shorter than the year that some E.U. leaders favored.The delay gives Britain time to get its ducks in a row. The European Council president, Donald Tusk, urged the U.K., “Please do not waste this time.” Mrs. May acknowledged that there would be “huge frustration” back home over the extension, but said she would again seek to persuade lawmakers to back her deal. The extension could be cut short if she manages to do so.But “the path ahead still resembles a minefield, dotted with explosive issues like a possible attempt to topple Mrs. May, a general election or a second Brexit referendum — or some combination of the three,” Mr. Castle and Mr. Erlanger write. “Most immediately, Mrs. May is likely to face calls to step down, and potential successors are already trying to raise money and advertise their credentials.”Don’t rule out another extension. At a news conference last night, Mr. Tusk told journalists, “Our wish and hope is the U.K. will be ready with a final solution at the end of October — but I’m too old to exclude another scenario.”American Media Inc., which owns the tabloid, said yesterday that the Enquirer is on the block. And a deal could be reached within days, Ed Lee, Andrew and Ben Protess of the NYT report.American Media is led by David Pecker, who helped silence a woman who said she had an affair with President Trump by buying her story for $150,000 before his 2016 election and never publishing it. Prosecutors who investigated the arrangement gave the company a nonprosecution deal, which requires it to avoid committing crimes for the next several years.But American Media is in a tough spot over The Enquirer’s feud with Jeff Bezos, who says he was threatened by the publication. Mr. Bezos is expected to meet with federal prosecutors this week to discuss his claims. If prosecutors move forward with a case, it could jeopardize American Media’s non-prosecution agreement.The controversy is spurring the sale. American Media’s principal owner is behind the push to sell the tabloid, the NYT reports. That company, the hedge fund Chatham Asset Management, “no longer saw an upside in being associated with The Enquirer.” An unnamed source told the WaPo that American Media’s investors were uncomfortable owning a tabloid involved in supporting Mr. Trump.But the publisher says its business focus has shifted away from tabloids to glossy magazines like Us Weekly and Men’s Journal. “Because of this focus, we feel the future opportunities with the tabloids can be best exploited by a different ownership,” the company said in a statement.The House approved legislation yesterday that seeks to revive so-called net neutrality regulations that the Trump administration overturned in 2017, Cecilia Kang of the NYT writes.• “The legislation would prohibit blocking and throttling web traffic and would categorize broadband as a service open to heavy regulation,” Ms. Kang writes. The 232-to-190 vote effectively supports giving users equal access to content.• “Supporters say the regulation would prevent companies from blocking or slowing the delivery of content like videos.”• “Opponents say it would strap broadband providers like Verizon and Comcast with heavy-handed restrictions, and could lead to price controls.”But the legislation faces long odds in the Republican-led Senate. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, said this week that the legislation would be “dead on arrival.” And earlier this week, the Office of Management and Budget “advised the White House to veto the law if it reached the president’s desk,” Ms. Kang writes.And then there were two. The Pentagon said yesterday that only two candidates remained in its contest to win a $10 billion contract: Amazon and Microsoft.Those were the only companies to meet the “minimum requirements” for the contract, according to the Defense Department. Only one provider will win the huge contract, which will build the main global data repository for U.S. military services and is known as JEDI.The contest had been mired in controversy since Oracle, one of the now-rejected bidders, alleged that an Amazon employee who had worked on JEDI during a stint at the Defense Department had undue influence on the process. A Pentagon spokeswoman said yesterday that the employee had “no adverse impact on the integrity of the acquisition process.”The P.R. firm Gladstone Place Partners has hired Christina Stenson, most recently of the Brunswick Group, as a partner in San Francisco.Deals• U.S. authorities reportedly pressured Pamplona Capital Management, an investment firm backed in part by a Russian billionaire, into selling a stake in the cybersecurity company Cofense over national security concerns. (WSJ)• Barclays’ former investment banking chief, Tim Throsby, reportedly clashed with the bank’s C.E.O., Jes Staley, over profit targets. (FT)• Deutsche Bank reportedly wants more time to consider whether to merge with Commerzbank. (Reuters)• Saudi Aramco’s newly issued bonds have already slipped below their offering price. (FT)• The I.T. services company PagerDuty raised $218 million in its I.P.O., after increasing its price range. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• Gregory Craig, a former White House counsel in the Obama administration, is expected to be charged over his work for Ukraine in a case linked to Robert Mueller’s investigation. (NYT)• The Treasury Department won’t meet a deadline for a House committee’s request for President Trump’s tax returns. (NYT)• Mr. Trump defended his potential nomination of Herman Cain to the Fed. Janet Yellen, the central bank’s former chief, warned that any new members should check their politics at the door. (WSJ)• Senator Bernie Sanders renewed his push for Medicare-for-all legislation. Related: How much would it cost? (NYT, Upshot)• Attorney General William Barr told Congress that the Justice Department will look into potential “spying” into the 2016 Trump campaign. (NYT)Boeing• The F.A.A. didn’t review modifications that Boeing made to anti-stall software for the 737 Max 8 jet after an initial safety review. (NYT)• The transportation secretary, Elaine Chao, defended the F.A.A.’s delayed grounding of the Boeing jets. (WSJ)Trade• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that the U.S. and China had agreed on a trade deal enforcement mechanism. (CNBC)Tech• Disney is expected to reveal details about its streaming service, called Disney Plus, to investors later today. (WSJ)• The NYT has launched the Privacy Project to answer some of the biggest questions in our digital lives: Does privacy matter? What do companies know, and how do they know it? And what can we do about it? (NYT)• Over 3,500 Amazon employees urged the company to do more on climate change. Others have been listening to audio clips from users’ utterances to Alexa — and sharing amusing ones in an internal chat room. (NYT, Bloomberg)• A new bill in Congress would force tech companies to evaluate their algorithms for bias. (Verge)• Ads could be coming to Google Maps. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• The head of the I.R.S. said that parents in the college admissions scandal could face big tax bills. (Bloomberg)• Automakers are preparing for regulatory chaos and a divided U.S. car market when the Trump administration rolls back emissions standards. (NYT)• JetBlue will start operating flights to London. (NYT)• Minutes from the last Fed meeting suggest a growing belief at the central bank that there is little need to change rates this year. (WSJ)• Why investors need more transparency into how C.E.O. pay is linked to performance. (WSJ op-ed)• Julian Assange was taken into police custody this morning after being evicted from the Ecuadorean Embassy in London. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article did not include the full context of a question to Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase’s chief executive, about the bank’s policies with regard to lending to the gun industry, and of Mr. Dimon’s response. The article has been revised to include that context.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Do you feel like you can afford to live in California?If you said no to that question, you’d be in good company: 43 percent of Californians would agree with you.The one part of the state where they’d be less likely to feel the crunch? The Bay Area — land of some of the nation’s most crushing housing and child care costs — where 65 percent of registered voters said, yes, they feel as if they can afford to live here.Still, 77 percent of Californians acknowledged the state’s housing crisis, including 85 percent in the Bay.And that’s compared with 52 percent of L.A. County residents who said they felt as if they could afford to live in the Golden State and 53 percent of Inland and Valley residents.Those are a few findings from Quinnipiac University’s first California-specific poll.Quinnipiac is known for its national election polling, as well as a source for public opinions in states like New York, New Jersey, Florida and Ohio. But until now, not California.Doug Schwartz, director of the Quinnipiac University Poll, said that’s mostly a function of momentum.Tim Malloy, assistant director of the poll, said the university had always had its eye on the West.“For a long time, we’ve been talking about it,” he said. “The last several months, there’s been a confluence of issues — the wall, immigration, global warming, climate, housing home prices and potential presidential candidates — it’s got everything.”California, Mr. Malloy said, is a microcosm of the country.Still, he said, he was a little surprised by some of the results.For instance, one number that got a bit of attention: While 58 percent of Californians said they’d be excited if Senator Kamala Harris became the Democratic nominee for president, only 40 percent said she’d make a good president.“She’s very, very well-known,” Mr. Malloy said. And if people would be excited for her candidacy, “why the heck wouldn’t she make a good president?”Mr. Schwartz said one more statistic that struck him as curious was that 43 percent of voters said forest mismanagement was more responsible for the severity of wildfires than climate change. The same percentage said the opposite — that they thought climate change was more responsible than forest mismanagement.Check out the rest of the results here.(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Pacific Gas and Electric submitted its newly required plan to reduce wildfires. The troubled utility said it would cut power during dry and windy weather more often, trim more trees along power lines and spend as much as $2.3 billion on the efforts. [The New York Times]• And in other woes for PG&E, the gas pipeline that shot a massive flame into a San Francisco street on Wednesday was one of numerous lines in the city that can’t be cut off automatically. One expert said it shouldn’t have taken as long as it did to get the fire under control. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• The Richmond-San Rafael Bridge reopened after closing abruptly because large chunks of concrete were tumbling off it and onto passing vehicles. [The Mercury News]• Liberal Democrats made their formal call for a “Green New Deal,” which the Republican National Committee derided as a “socialist wish list.” But Democratic presidential hopefuls like Senator Kamala Harris leaned into the idea. [The New York Times]• In order to cover its promised pay for some Amazon delivery contractors, the company dipped into their tips. [The Los Angeles Times]• Residents of Fresno’s poorest neighborhood thought high-speed rail could transform it. But now they’re worried it could be another false promise. [The Center for Public Integrity]• Who is Gavin de Becker, Jeff Bezos’ longtime security chief? He’s the product of a childhood full of the violence and fear he’s now paid to shield others from. And he grew up among the Hollywood elite. [The New York Times]• Frank Robinson, a Hall of Fame slugger and the first black manager in major league baseball, died at home in Los Angeles on Thursday. He grew up in Oakland and managed the San Francisco Giants. [The New York Times]• Read the strange, sad tale of a young woman who moved from Indiana to California to work in cannabis and followed two hackers to her death. [Buzzfeed]• It’s been raining and snowing in California. That means it’s boom time for the state’s mountain resorts. [The New York Times]• Watch this Anatomy of a Scene from “Velvet Buzzsaw,” which is supposed to be a sendup of the L.A. art world. [The New York Times]Somehow it’s almost Valentine’s Day already.The gift and dining guides are trickling out. So are the sweet stories, like this one, about a Bakersfield couple who will get married next month at age 90 and 89.The two were high school sweethearts in 1944 before they went their separate ways, lived separate lives, raised separate sets of children. But then, as The Bakersfield Californian reported, not long after Earle Murie lost his wife of 67 years, Laurette Ellis called to wish him a happy birthday.And just like that, their new life together started.If you’re looking for love stories that involve more 21st century concerns, The Times, of course, has its tiny love stories. They come from all over. But I’d love to read about uniquely California love. So if you have a tiny California love story — 100 words or less — send it to CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersCOLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. — Virgin Galactic's goal to fly tourists into space as early as this summer is about 12 years later than initially promised by its founder, British billionaire Sir Richard Branson.But many of its customers, including Gisli Gislason, aren't sweating it.Right up there with a few minutes in space on Gislason’s bucket list is his time on earth with other space enthusiasts and Branson, a fellow adrenaline junkie known as much for his globe-trotting stunts as for starting his own airline.“It’s more than just a trip to space, it’s a huge, ongoing event,” said Icelandic ticket holder Gislason, who has a Virgin Galactic logo tattooed on his arm and bought his ticket to space in 2010. “I’ve already got what I paid for, so I’m just in for a bonus,” he added.Gislason's experience is no accident.Since its early days, Virgin Galactic specifically set out to win customer loyalty, knowing its attempt to become the world’s first commercial spaceline would likely see its share of setbacks. So featuring its top salesman Branson, the company prioritized exclusive experiences for its “future astronauts,” building a community that has stayed loyal through years of pushed deadlines and a fatal 2014 crash. (For an interactive version of this story, click https://tmsnrt.rs/2Id1QMH)While waiting for their trip, some since 2004, Virgin ticket holders have been busied with treats on earth: from a custom-created solar eclipse festival in Idaho and test-flight viewings in California’s Mojave Desert to spaceship-shaped cufflinks at Christmas and group excursions to Branson's private island in the Caribbean, where they can play tennis with the famous entrepreneur and swap design ideas for the spaceflight around a campfire. “One of our astronauts once said to me, ‘Don’t fly to space, we’re thoroughly enjoying spending all this time going to the game reserve in Africa or Necker Island,’” Branson told Reuters in an exclusive interview.“That long, drawn out foreplay can be pretty good, the orgasm is quite quick,” he said, laughing. Ticket holders pay for some of these particularly high-end events, but just cover the travel for others.“That was a compelling part of the package,” said Mark Rocket, a New Zealander who changed his name nearly 20 years ago and signed up with Virgin Galactic in 2006. “It’s not just about those few minutes in space.”More than 600 people from 58 countries have put down a deposit for a 90-minute flight priced at $250,000, up from $200,000 in 2013. The first 100 “founders” will partake in a lottery to determine who gets to fly sooner rather than later. The company expects to increase the frequency of the flights as they build up their space fleet over time. It has collected about $80 million in ticket holder deposits, money which CEO George Whitesides said the company does not use for spaceship development. That funding instead comes largely from the Virgin Group and Abu Dhabi’s Mubadala Investment Group. Other than stating Branson himself will be on the first scheduled flight, the company has not disclosed which ticketholders will go first – though Branson is considering the possibility of some customers jumping the line for the right price to help pay the bills. “There is a market out there we believe who would be willing to pay a million dollars to go on an earlier flight, and we’ve got a few slots at that sort of price,” Branson told Reuters.Signed-up “future astronauts” vary from billionaires to people who remortgaged their homes to pay for the ride, from pop star Justin Bieber to Mary Wallace “Wally” Funk, 80, one of the so-called ‘Mercury 13’ women who in the 1960s passed the same punishing tests as male astronauts before the program’s funding was pulled. Virgin’s decision to sign up customers long before it developed and tested a commercial spaceship contrasts with Blue Origin, founded by Jeff Bezos, which will only sell tickets for its suborbital flights after it completes its crewed flight tests.“It would not have been a Virgin company had we squirreled away in secret and built a spaceship without any customers and rolled it out once it was all ready and tested,” said Stephen Attenborough, Virgin Galactic’s commercial director and first full-time employee. Now, after a crewed SpaceShipTwo test flight to space in December 2018 and another carrying a test passenger in February, Virgin Galactic is inching closer to commercial flight. Blue Origin's New Shepard rocket has reached space but its first human spaceflight is still targeted for this year, and it has not determined a ticket price or when it will begin taking reservations.Elon Musk’s SpaceX is also in the race: last year it named Japanese fashion magnate Yusaku Maezawa as its first customer on a voyage around the moon, tentatively scheduled for 2023. “FUTURE ASTRONAUT” STRATEGYVirgin Galactic knew that the price tag for its flights, sold in advance to prove that there was a healthy market when there was a product to deliver, would require providing customer service during the wait.“Right from the start it was obvious to me that if we were going to have customers and we were accepting fairly large deposits, we were going to need to communicate regularly with those people,” said Attenborough.It was not clear how long the wait for tourist spaceflights might be, with Branson’s timelines shifting: In 2004, Virgin was saying it would offer commercial spaceflights by 2007. By 2012, the plan was 2013. As deadlines whizzed by, the future astronaut program evolved, organizing group trips from the Farnborough Air Show to the ‘Cradle of Humankind’ fossil site in South Africa.“That is something that they tapped into and wised up to really early,” said Trevor Beattie, a ticketholder and UK advertising executive working on Virgin Galactic’s marketing campaign. “They created, quite deliberately, a sense of community.”For some, access to Branson himself upped the experience.“Isn’t it funny how the wine tastes better when you know the winemaker?” said Matthew Upchurch, a ticket holder and the CEO of Virtuoso, a travel agency network with exclusive rights to sell Virgin Galactic flights in North America.CRASH TESTS LOYALTY       The biggest test of this carefully built customer community came in 2014, when a test flight crash killed the co-pilot and seriously injured the pilot.“I remember very well waking up very early on Saturday morning after the Friday accident and wondering what would happen to this customer base,” Attenborough said.The company reached out to customers by email on the day of the crash, both before and after the co-pilot’s death was known. There was a blog post from Branson on that day, and later, a video message. A subsequent email from the astronaut relations team said that they planned to call every customer individually.“That was obviously a horrendous day for everybody,” said Branson, adding that his experience of a fatal 2007 Virgin Trains crash in which an elderly woman was killed meant he knew it was important to get to the scene of the test flight accident and “take these things head on.”In the end, Attenborough said only a “handful” of customers asked for refunds.An email seen by Reuters from the astronaut relations team three weeks after the crash said it would soon share a program of upcoming activities and trips. It advertised some “gold-dust-like spots” for a “star Galactic team” at the London Marathon – some of the sponsorship money would now go to a memorial fund for the co-pilot who was killed.After consulting with customers, the company went ahead with one of its planned annual Virgin Galactic trips to Necker Island just a few weeks after the crash.Now, after years of huge setbacks and surreal highs, Virgin Galactic’s ticketholders are edging closer to their flights. For some, space is still the final frontier.“I’ve driven a Bugatti at 253 miles an hour, I’ve skied to the South Pole, swam at the North Pole. I’ve done a lot of stuff and the thing I really want to do is fly in space,” said Jim Clash, an adventure journalist and passenger 610. (Editing by Greg Mitchell and Edward Tobin)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.Democratic and Republican negotiators said last night that they had an “agreement in principle” on border security funding that could keep the federal government open.The deal includes $1.38 billion to pay for 55 miles of new fencing, technology and staffing for border protection. It’s not the $5.7 billion that President Trump had demanded to build a 200-mile wall. Democrats waived their demand for limits on detention capacity for immigrants.But there’s no guarantee that it will go through. The House and Senate would have to vote on the pact, and Mr. Trump would have to sign it. “I think everyone will say, ‘Good work,’ ” Representative Kay Granger of Texas, one of the Republican negotiators, said. Still, at a rally in Texas last night, Mr. Trump insisted that he will build a wall. And influential Republican commentators like the Fox News host Sean Hannity called the deal a “garbage compromise.”The remaining alternatives are hugely unattractive. Politico notes that a potential White House plan to redirect unspent federal funds toward the wall would “create a firestorm.” And another government shutdown could hit the U.S. economy and endanger aviation safety.The British prime minister is scheduled to update lawmakers later today on progress in negotiations on withdrawing from the E.U.She has a big favor to ask. Mrs. May is focused on making changes to the so-called backstop in her exit deal, which is designed to prevent a hard border between Ireland and Northern Ireland. She has made little headway. Bloomberg explains her plan for today:• Mrs. May will “update Parliament on the progress of talks with the E.U. and outline a motion she’ll put before M.P.s for debate on Thursday, her office said.”• She “is expected to ask Parliament to restate its demand to remove the backstop from the Withdrawal Agreement and to promise a further vote if she hasn’t brought a renegotiated deal back to Parliament by Feb. 27.”• The aim is “to reassure members from across the House of Commons who are concerned that May is deliberately running down the clock and risking a potentially disastrous no-deal divorce.”But the E.U. still isn’t budging. Its chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, said yesterday that “something has to give on the British side.”Yet Mrs. May could force her plan through Parliament. Bloomberg explains how, though it also admits that “a lot could go wrong.”More Brexit news: Britain had its weakest economic growth in six years last year. It has signed a trade deal with Switzerland, its biggest since the 2016 Brexit referendum. And its government is being sued for awarding a contract for freight shipments after a no-deal Brexit to a ferry company with no boats.The former Fed chairman recently sat down with Ray Dalio of Bridgewater Capital for a wide-ranging conversation, with topics from the state of the U.S. to the principles of good government. Don’t have time to watch? Here are the highlights:On Washington: Mr. Volcker lamented the condition of the U.S. government, repeating past criticisms. “You’ve got presidents who don’t seem to mind either personal behavior or making outrageous statements, true or not,” he told Mr. Dalio. “You have a Congress that’s been unable to function effectively.”On the Civil Service: For the former Fed chairman, an important problem to solve now is how to make government work again appear to be honorable. “Public administration’s a bad word now,” he told Mr. Dalio, leaving important government departments without effective leaders.What Mr. Volcker is doing: He has set up the Volcker Alliance, which is meant to help schools train future government officials. “It’s a great trick,” Mr. Volcker said. “How can you get the expertise and leadership you need and still respect the popular desire?”Optimism about personal finances hasn’t been this high in more than 16 years, according to a study by Gallup.Sixty-nine percent of Americans expect to be better off this time next year. That is “only two percentage points below the all-time high of 71 percent, recorded in March 1998,” according to Gallup. That’s in a survey carried out between Jan. 2 and Jan. 10, in the middle of the government shutdown.Half of respondents say they’re better off than they were a year ago. That figure had been consistently under half since 2007, Gallup says.The optimism is hard to overstate. “Only 11 times in 109 polls stretching back to 1976 have at least half of those polled said they were in better financial shape than they had been a year prior,” Gallup notes. “Only once in 114 polls going back to 1977 have Americans been more optimistic about their personal finances in the coming year than they are today.”“Europe is sleepwalking into oblivion, and the people of Europe need to wake up before it is too late,” George Soros writes in an opinion piece on Project Syndicate:• “Neither our leaders nor ordinary citizens seem to understand that we are experiencing a revolutionary moment, that the range of possibilities is very broad, and that the eventual outcome is thus highly uncertain.”• “The next inflection point will be the elections for the European Parliament in May 2019. Unfortunately, anti-European forces will enjoy a competitive advantage in the balloting.”• “The first step to defending Europe from its enemies, both internal and external, is to recognize the magnitude of the threat they present. The second is to awaken the sleeping pro-European majority and mobilize it to defend the values on which the E.U. was founded.”The firm said yesterday that it would buy Solium Capital, which manages stock paid out to corporate employees, for $900 million. It’s the biggest deal by a major Wall Street firm since the financial crisis — so what’s the rationale?The bank wants in on millennial wealth. Solium’s clients include start-ups, like Instacart and Stripe, which could go public at multibillion-dollar valuations — making some employees very rich.Wall Street approves of the strategy. Analysts at Evercore ISI wrote yesterday that Solium gives Morgan Stanley “a real path towards the organic growth and next generation of clients that many investors have been questioning.” Matthew Klein of Barron’s wrote last week that millennials could hold the key to improving American productivity — and wealth.And banks seem newly hungry for deals. Days before Morgan Stanley’s acquisition, BB&T agreed to buy SunTrust in the biggest bank merger since the 2008 crisis. Banking chiefs seem heartened by loosened regulations on their sector — and eager to capitalize through acquisitions. “We’d like to do more,” James Gorman, Morgan Stanley’s C.E.O., told the WSJ. (And JPMorgan Chase has reportedly considered buying the asset manager WisdomTree, according to Bloomberg.)It’s just eight months until Mario Draghi’s finishes his nonrenewable term as president of the European Central Bank. Choosing his successor is both important and difficult, the WSJ reports:• Investors have trusted Mr. Draghi, the WSJ says, as they navigate “a toxic mix of risks in Europe, from Brexit to trade wars.”• “At least five unofficial candidates appear to be in the running to replace him, according to European officials: two Frenchmen, two Finns and a German. The candidates have very different economic philosophies, and there is no clear front-runner.”• The winner might be chosen to balance the nationalities of the E.U.’s leadership, rather than purely on merit. The WSJ quotes Karel Lannoo, chief executive of the Centre for European Policy Studies, a Brussels think tank, on the risks of that. “It’s the most systemically important job in Europe, this man controls the show,” he said. “It can go badly wrong.”WSJ reporters scoured fourth-quarter results from U.S. companies in an attempt to better understand the slowing of China’s economic growth.What they found: Many companies are “struggling with weaker demand from export manufacturers in China, which are pulling back amid fears that trade tensions will worsen,” Austen Hufford and Theo Francis of the WSJ report. “Retailers and other companies catering to Chinese consumers face signs of weakness among the country’s growing middle class. They are buying fewer cars, phones and are traveling less.”The conclusion: “The indications are that slowing growth there is broad, if still modest,” Mr. Hufford and Mr. Francis write.Just half of PG&E’s directors will stand for re-election this year after the utility filed for bankruptcy amid the California wildfires.Colgate-Palmolive named Noel Wallace, its C.O.O., as  chief executive, replacing Ian Cook.GV, the venture capital arm of Alphabet, hired David Schenkein, the former C.E.O. of Agios Pharmaceuticals, as its co-head of life sciences.Apple named Frank Casanova, a longtime iPhone executive, as its first head of marketing for augmented reality.Sony appointed Jim Ryan as C.E.O. of its PlayStation business.Deals• Colony Capital, the investment firm founded by the real estate mogul Tom Barrack, will explore selling assets after an activist hedge fund, Blackwells Capital, took a stake. (Colony)• SoftBank’s Vision Fund led a $940 million investment in Nuro, a driverless delivery start-up. (FT)• Amazon agreed to buy Eero, which makes wireless routers, to advance its smart-home ambitions. (Reuters)• Peloton, which makes video-streaming stationary bikes and treadmills, is reportedly interviewing banks to prepare for an I.P.O. (WSJ)• DoorDash, the delivery start-up, is reportedly in the process of raising $500 million at a $6 billion valuation. (WSJ)• Reddit raised $150 million from Tencent — and its users now fear censorship. (Verge)Politics and policy• President Trump and Gov. Andrew Cuomo of New York will meet today to discuss revising a cap on deductions for state and local taxes. (Bloomberg)• Democratic presidential contenders see small donors, rather than traditional wealthy backers, as a test of viability for the 2020 race. (WaPo)• Contrary to popular belief, Mr. Trump’s presidency has hurt America’s gun lobby. (NYT editorial)Trade• President Trump is reportedly eager to meet with President Xi Jinping of China to discuss a trade deal. (Bloomberg)• American tariffs on Chinese goods have reduced the two countries’ trade imbalance — without helping U.S. companies. (Axios)• Chinese investments in Israeli tech companies are raising security concerns. (WSJ)Tech• What’s it like to be a contractor at one of Apple’s less glamorous offices? Not much fun. (Bloomberg)• Mars One Ventures, which promised one-way trips to the red planet, is bankrupt. (Verge)• If New York doesn’t want a new Amazon campus, Newark does. (Bloomberg)• Alphabet and Microsoft are discreetly warning that A.I. could harm their brands. (Wired)The Jeff Bezos saga• The American Media Inc. lawyer who reportedly sought a deal over Mr. Bezos’s private photos was once an Amazon Kindle executive. (WSJ)• American Media reportedly asked the Justice Department whether it needed to register as a foreign agent because of its ties to Saudi Arabia. (WSJ)• The WaPo has found itself in a tricky situation: reporting on its owner’s fight with The National Enquirer, while being a cause of the battle. (NYT)Best of the rest• Could leveraged loans sink the U.S. economy? (FT)• For two years, Goldman Sachs bet on companies with strong balance sheets. Not anymore. (CNBC)• The hedge fund manager Paul Tudor Jones says there’s a “mania” for share buybacks, and that he’s worried about the social consequences. (CNBC)• Toys ‘R’ Us is planning a comeback later this year. (NYT)• Is corporate America headed toward an earnings recession? (DealBook)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAbolish bad policy instead. By Will WilkinsonMr. Wilkinson is a contributing opinion writer. Billionaires are in notably bad odor with many people on the left. Socialists have long held that large stores of private wealth are tantamount to violence against those in need. But regular nonradical folks not on the left are fed up, too. Howard Schultz’s potential independent White House bid is simply infuriating, and it’s maddening to feel helplessly tangled in the gilded web of global intrigue emanating from the president, his plutocrat dictator pals and America’s retail overlord, the philandering Jeff Bezos.Thanks at least in part to Bernie Sanders and the sizzling rise of Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, this dry wick has met a spark. Enthusiasm for radical leveling is whistling out of the hard-left fringe and blossoming into a mainstream mood.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s policy adviser, Dan Riffle, contends that “every billionaire is a policy failure” (that’s the tagline on his Twitter handle) because “the acquisition of that much wealth has bad consequences” and “a moral society needs guardrails against it.” He’d like to see the 2020 Democratic primary contenders answer a question: Can it be morally appropriate for anyone to be a billionaire? It’s a compelling litmus test. I’d also like to watch would-be Democratic nominees take it. However, I hope that they would stick up for the idea that it can be morally kosher to bank a billion and that the existence of virtuous three-comma fortunes is a sign not of failure but of supreme policy success.The empirical record is quite clear about the general form of national political economy that produces the happiest, healthiest, wealthiest, freest and longest lives. There’s no pithy name for it, so we’ll have to settle for “liberal-democratic welfare-state capitalism.” There’s a “social democratic” version, which is what you get in countries like Sweden, Norway and the Netherlands. And there’s a “neoliberal” (usually English-speaking) version, which is what you get in countries like Canada, New Zealand and the United States.You may prefer one version over the other, but they’re not all that different. And in comparative terms, they’re all insanely great. The typical citizen of these countries is as well-off as human beings have ever been. These places are the historical pinnacle of policy success.But guess what? There are billionaires in all of them. Egalitarian Sweden, an object of ardent progressive adoration, has more billionaires per capita than the United States. Six countries outrank the United States on a well-being index and also have more billionaires per capita.Human Development Index rankBillionairesper capita rank1234567791011121314151617171920NorwaySwitzerlandAustraliaIrelandGermanyIcelandHong KongSwedenSingaporeNetherlandsDenmarkCanadaUnited StatesBritainFinlandNew ZealandLiechtensteinBelgiumJapanAustria841311127265271615101914311444118By The New York Times | Sources: Forbes; United Nations; World BankSo what’s the problem? Preventing billion-dollar hoards guards against the bad consequences of … having the best sort of polity that has ever existed? The progressive idea here is usually that people with vastly more wealth than the common run of citizens wield vastly disproportionate political power and therefore imperil democracy and the equal worth of our basic rights. It’s a worry we’ve got to take seriously, but it’s based more in abstract theorizing than empirical analysis. Inspect any credible international ranking of countries by democratic quality, equal treatment under the law or level of personal freedom. You’ll find the same passel of billionaire-tolerant states again and again. If there are billionaires in all the places where people flourish best, why think getting rid of them will make things go better?It can be tempting to think that there’s no morally decent way to accumulate that much wealth. And it’s true that scads of the filthy rich got that way through theft, exploitation and the subtler corruption of anti-competitive rules in politically rigged markets. (You may have heard of Donald Trump.)But there’s a big moral difference between positive-sum wealth production and zero-sum wealth extraction — a difference that corresponds to a rough-and-ready distinction between the deserving and undeserving rich. The distinction is sound because there’s a proven a way to make a moral killing: improve a huge number of other people’s lives while capturing a tiny slice of the surplus value. Consider Dr. Gary Michelson, a spinal surgeon and inventor worth an estimated $1.8 billion. He lives in Los Angeles. Dr. Michelson holds hundreds of patents on medical devices and procedures that have made spinal surgery more effective. He got rich by making it so that people with spinal injuries could walk again or suffer less debilitating pain.According to William Nordhaus, the Nobel Prize-winning economist, innovators capture about 2 percent of the economic value they create. The rest of it accrues to consumers. Whatever that is, it’s not a raw deal. The accumulation of these innovations over time is the mechanism that drives compounding economic growth, which accounts for a vast improvement over the past 100 years in the typical American standard of living. Some people may have made an ungodly sum in the course of helping make this humanitarian miracle happen, but that’s O.K. This isn’t to say that the deserving rich deserve every penny they get. In a better world, billionaires like Dr. Michelson would probably have less. Policy failure is rife, and it’s bound to account for a portion of even the best-deserved fortunes. Patents, for example, are government-granted monopolies meant to incentivize innovation. But the evidence suggests we’ve overshot the mark, and the pace of innovation would quicken, and many of America’s biggest fortunes would shrink, if patent protections were weakened.Along similar lines, few of us object to J.K. Rowling making a mint entertaining billions of kids (and adults), but much of her net worth is because of merchandising profits built on unjustifiably ironclad intellectual property rights, which have deprived billions of the joys of knockoff Harry Potter toys and stories. Nearly every real-world market is defined to some extent by rules that limit competition, concentrate wealth and leave the rest of us poorer than we might have been. A small number of people have too much housing wealth because we’ve made it too hard to build. Financial innovation makes new markets and improves the allocation of resources, but Wall Street tycoons also reap huge rewards from winning wasteful arbitrage arms races, skimming off transactions and nickel-and-diming consumers with inscrutable fees.Fixing these policy failures might create a system that produces fewer billionaires. But that shouldn’t be the point. It might also produce more morally worthy 10-figure fortunes. That’s great, because we should be aiming to channel entrepreneurial energy into productive wealth creation that lifts us all up and away from the extraction of wealth through unjust rules that close off opportunity and deprive us of the blessings of innovation.There is a possible America where routes to extractive wealth have been closed and barriers to productive wealth have been cleared; where the wealthiest have somewhat less, and the rest of us have a great deal more. In this America, our economy and democracy are more equitable and less corrupt, and the least well-off fare better than ever. We should dearly want to live there, in a place where, if you can manage to become one, it’s more than “morally appropriate” to be a billionaire.Will Wilkinson is a contributing opinion writer and the vice president for research at the Niskanen Center.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhy would a rich man cut corners on the most intimate of investments?By Jennifer WeinerContributing Opinion WriterI’ve been thinking lately about one of my relatives, now of blessed memory. This woman was gracious and kind. Her clothes and makeup were always impeccable; her home was well decorated and welcoming. When you went over for tea, the cups would be porcelain, and the utensils would be sterling silver. The sweetener would come in white paper packets, embossed with the Golden Arches, most likely pilfered from the nearby McDonald’s where she and her girls would go for coffee, and woe betide the server who failed to offer them the senior discount.This was a woman who could afford to buy a bag of sugar. But she wouldn’t dream of it. Maybe it was Depression-era thrift, or maybe it was the tiny thrill of a tiny theft, the minute dopamine rush you get when you do something that isn’t exactly stealing but isn’t entirely legitimate either.Her quirk was far from unique. We’ve all seen (or maybe even carried) pocketbooks full of stolen Sweet’N Low or used a guest bathroom where the towels were Egyptian cotton, the countertops were Carrara marble and the soap was a tiny rectangle from a Holiday Inn Express.The rich are different. Some of them drop six figures to get their children into a college where they didn’t earn a spot.And some of them seem to be cheap about the weirdest things. There’s our president, who likes to brag about his tremendous fortune and who has twice served an assortment of fast food to championship college football players who came to call. Maybe Mr. Trump, a fast-food aficionado himself, believed that the spread was exactly what the athletes wanted. And maybe it was.But we know that Mr. Trump has bragged about underpaying contractors who he has said have done shoddy work and has cut workers’ benefits and salaries, being cheap in a way that causes pain and suffering.We also know that he pretty much lives to troll. So it’s hard for me not to read the bargain-menu feast as intended, at the very least, to enrage the libs and, as a bonus, keep costs down, too.But maybe Mr. Trump’s behavior makes a kind of sense when you put it in the context of the billionaire thrift-boast, the 0.001 percent variation on the humblebrag. See, for example, Warren Buffett and his reported $18 haircuts, or how he never pays more than $3.17 for breakfast. Or Jeff Bezos, letting the world know about his $81,840 annual salary from Amazon. The Ikea founder, Ingvar Kamprad, flew coach and bought his clothes at flea markets. Queen Elizabeth II is said to reuse wrapping paper. Stars in jewels and couture scarf In-N-Out burgers on their way home from the Oscars.See? they are saying. Of course we could afford caviar or a fancy car or a fresh roll of wrapping paper. Fame and fortune haven’t changed us. Deep down, we’re just like you!Which brings us to Robert Kraft, a 77-year-old billionaire, Donald Trump pal, New England Patriots owner and, apparently, a fellow cheap senior. Last month Mr. Kraft was swept up in a statewide sting operation and charged with soliciting sex in a South Florida strip mall. Mr. Kraft is an undisputed billionaire. If he wants to pay for sex, he could hire the most discreet, professional escorts. If it had to be sex with someone at a strip mall, he could have probably bought the entire strip mall — nail salon, Outback Steakhouse and all.But according to the prosecutors, that’s not what happened. Instead, they say, for two days in a row he visited a seedy-looking storefront called Orchids of Asia Spa, where he spent less than 20 minutes per visit and paid between $100 and $200 for these encounters, one of which involved oral sex, with women who were, according to the police, prisoners, brought over from China with the promise of legitimate jobs. These women’s lives sound miserable. They were flown to America. Many were routed through Flushing, Queens, then dispatched to spas all over the country. They would work up to 14-hour days, seven days a week, cooking their meals on hot plates, sleeping on the massage tables, being moved from business to business, sometimes after they’d surrendered their passports to their bosses.Mr. Kraft wasn’t the only superrich guy who was caught up in this investigation: John Childs, who founded a private equity firm, and John Havens, the former chief financial officer of Citigroup, were also charged.Mr. Kraft and Mr. Childs have denied the charges. The police say they have taped evidence. But the allegations do present this tantalizing question: If these men are indeed guilty, why are billionaires, with all the discretionary income in the world to pay for sex in a way that’s sane and unlikely to get them in trouble, seemingly looking for intimate companionship and a bargain at the same time? Of all the things to skimp on, why sex?Maybe the cheapness is part of the fun. Maybe strip-mall sex lets jaded, wealthy men feel as if they’re getting away with something, giving them the same tiny thrill enjoyed by every little old lady with a purse full of purloined Panera napkins.Maybe it speaks to a puritanical ambivalence about pleasure: The seedy surroundings allow you to simultaneously have your cake and feel bad about eating it, too.Perhaps it’s the cautionary example Mr. Trump provides. His presidency, of course, has been plagued by revelations that his fixer arranged for significant hush money payments to two women with whom Mr. Trump allegedly had affairs. A professional escort (or even just a native, English-speaking one) might be tempted to try for a similar arrangement. And even if she doesn’t, her client presumably would still have to talk to her, to look her in the face and discuss terms, negotiate limits or even just say, “Be quiet, ‘Shark Week’ is on.” No matter how skewed the power dynamics, no matter how briefly, the client has to see her as a person. A woman in a place like Orchids of Asia who might not be in the country legally and doesn’t speak your language? She probably doesn’t seem like a threat in the same way. In the eyes of her clients, I imagine, she isn’t a person you’d have to send your lawyer after to pay off, she is barely a person at all. If a man, even a billionaire, wants to buy sex, I’ve got no quarrel, as long as both parties are of age and willing. But that same billionaire skimping and paying a relatively paltry amount to a woman who doesn’t want to be there and can’t leave? That’s something else.Same with the sugar. When your elderly relatives take a few extra napkins from a fast-food place, that’s one thing. But what if they load up at a mom-and-pop restaurant and take the napkin dispenser, too? Cheap can be charming, and quirky, or at least understandable. But cutting corners at the expense of small-business owners or casino workers or Trump University students who think they’ll be getting an education is different. Helping yourself to free napkins is one thing; underpaying a prostitute or a victim of sex trafficking? That kind of cheap is a lot harder to understand.Jennifer Weiner (@jenniferweiner) is the author, most recently, of the memoir “Hungry Heart” and a contributing opinion writer.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael RostonJust as we’ve caught our breaths from 2018’s exciting and very busy year in space and astronomy, 2019 is already off to a rapid start. Before we finish the first week of this year, we’ll see a Chinese probe landing on the moon, an eclipse and NASA’s New Horizons spacecraft complete a flyby of the most distant object ever visited in the solar system. However much you love space and astronomy, we know it can be challenging to keep on top of the latest out-of-this-world news. We’ve put dates for these events and more on The Times’s Astronomy and Space Calendar, which has been updated for 2019. Subscribe on your personal digital calendar, and you’ll be automatically synced with our updates all year long.Never miss an eclipse, a meteor shower, a rocket launch or any other astronomical and space event that's out of this world.Below are some of the launches, space science and other events we anticipate. You’ll find these and others added to your calendar as their dates approach.The year is set to start with a moon landing by China’s Chang’e-4 mission. The spacecraft launched in December and reached lunar orbit four and a half days later. If its lander and rover succeed, Chang’e-4 will be the first spacecraft to make a soft, or intact, landing on the moon’s far side — the side that always faces away from Earth.The Chinese spacecraft may be the first of a series of lunar landings.An Israeli company, SpaceIL, is scheduled to send a lander to the moon in February. Originally, SpaceIL was one of four finalists in Google’s Lunar X Prize. But the prize went unclaimed when none of the companies were able to meet a launch deadline of March 31, 2018. If the Israeli mission succeeds, it would make that country only the fourth to complete a soft landing on the moon, after the United States, the Soviet Union and China.But Israel could get beaten to that distinction by India, which may launch Chandrayaan-2, the nation’s first moon lander and rover, as soon as late January. (Chandrayaan-1, an orbiter, launched in 2008.) The mission was expected to launch last year, but met with delays. This lunar activity may serve as a setup for the 50th anniversary of the Apollo 11 mission, when humans first walked on the moon. And China has the opportunity to bookend 2019 with a second moon mission, Chang’e-5, which could land on the moon late in the year, collect samples and later return them to Earth for study.Since 2011, when the space shuttle Atlantis completed its final mission, astronauts from the United States and other countries have relied on Russia’s Soyuz capsules to make journeys to and from the International Space Station. That could change later this year. SpaceX and Boeing have both built new capsules to carry crews for NASA and other space agencies. Delayed repeatedly in 2018, the capsules seem likely to get off the launchpad in 2019.SpaceX’s Crew Dragon is scheduled for its first uncrewed test launch on Jan. 17. If that succeeds, a test launch with crew aboard could follow in June. Boeing’s Starliner also may fly with no crew in March, followed by a test flight carrying astronauts in August.But even if test flights are completed for both capsules, NASA will need to assess their readiness and safety before the spacecraft begin carrying crew to the space station.Last year was a busy one for private spaceflight. The Falcon Heavy was tested successfully, giving SpaceX the most powerful rocket currently able to launch from Earth. Rocket Lab put payloads into orbit three times during the year, hinting at the promise of small rockets for the satellite business. And Virgin Galactic’s SpaceShipTwo crossed the 50-mile threshold into the atmosphere, making it the most advanced entrant in space tourism.These companies could be joined by other small rocket makers in 2019. One company likely to make it to space is Virgin Orbit. Related to Virgin Galactic, the company sends rockets high into the atmosphere aboard a 747 jet plane, and then releases and launches them into orbit. Its preparations for a test launch appeared to be progressing toward the end of 2018. Another contender, Vector, was started by a founder of SpaceX and aims to mass-produce small rockets on the cheap. It could complete its first orbital test this year, from the Pacific Spaceport Complex in Kodiak, Alaska.Other private operators may materialize, too. Jeff Bezos’s Blue Origin has been steadily testing its New Shepard rocket. And Falcon Heavy, following its exciting test launch last February, could carry satellites to high orbits twice in the first half of this year.In 2018, four missions set off for deep space or other planets to advance scientific research. NASA launched the Parker Solar Probe to study the sun, InSight to listen for tectonic activity on Mars and TESS to scour the Milky Way galaxy for planets. In addition, the joint European-Japanese BepiColombo mission set off on a long journey to Mercury.This year, data from these missions are expected to begin streaming back to planetary scientists and astronomers on Earth. Downloads from the TESS spacecraft already hinted at 73 potential exoplanets around other stars in September, and the Parker Solar Probe has transmitted striking photos of the sun (and Mercury).NASA will also select its next deep-space mission. The agency’s New Frontiers competition finances smaller deep-space missions, and past winners are currently traveling the solar system. NASA will choose between two finalists: a mission to the comet 67P/Churyumov–Gerasimenko (earlier studied by Europe’s Rosetta spacecraft) to collect samples and return them to Earth; or a robotic drone to Titan, a moon of Saturn, to study its terrain.We may also learn the fate of NASA’s Opportunity rover. Last summer a giant dust storm covered Mars and kept sunlight from reaching the robotic explorer’s solar batteries; since then, the rover has been silent. Its controllers on Earth have been trying to re-establish contact for months, and may need to consider discontinuing its mission.Michael Roston is the senior staff editor for science. He was previously a social media editor for The Times and a home page producer.  @michaelroston Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe ShiftBy Kevin RooseDAVOS, Switzerland — They’ll never admit it in public, but many of your bosses want machines to replace you as soon as possible.I know this because, for the past week, I’ve been mingling with corporate executives at the World Economic Forum’s annual meeting in Davos. And I’ve noticed that their answers to questions about automation depend very much on who is listening.In public, many executives wring their hands over the negative consequences that artificial intelligence and automation could have for workers. They take part in panel discussions about building “human-centered A.I.” for the “Fourth Industrial Revolution” — Davos-speak for the corporate adoption of machine learning and other advanced technology — and talk about the need to provide a safety net for people who lose their jobs as a result of automation.But in private settings, including meetings with the leaders of the many consulting and technology firms whose pop-up storefronts line the Davos Promenade, these executives tell a different story: They are racing to automate their own work forces to stay ahead of the competition, with little regard for the impact on workers.All over the world, executives are spending billions of dollars to transform their businesses into lean, digitized, highly automated operations. They crave the fat profit margins automation can deliver, and they see A.I. as a golden ticket to savings, perhaps by letting them whittle departments with thousands of workers down to just a few dozen.“People are looking to achieve very big numbers,” said Mohit Joshi, the president of Infosys, a technology and consulting firm that helps other businesses automate their operations. “Earlier they had incremental, 5 to 10 percent goals in reducing their work force. Now they’re saying, ‘Why can’t we do it with 1 percent of the people we have?’”Few American executives will admit wanting to get rid of human workers, a taboo in today’s age of inequality. So they’ve come up with a long list of buzzwords and euphemisms to disguise their intent. Workers aren’t being replaced by machines, they’re being “released” from onerous, repetitive tasks. Companies aren’t laying off workers, they’re “undergoing digital transformation.”A 2017 survey by Deloitte found that 53 percent of companies had already started to use machines to perform tasks previously done by humans. The figure is expected to climb to 72 percent by next year.The corporate elite’s A.I. obsession has been lucrative for firms that specialize in “robotic process automation,” or R.P.A. Infosys, which is based in India, reported a 33 percent increase in year-over-year revenue in its digital division. IBM’s “cognitive solutions” unit, which uses A.I. to help businesses increase efficiency, has become the company’s second-largest division, posting $5.5 billion in revenue last quarter. The investment bank UBS projects that the artificial intelligence industry could be worth as much as $180 billion by next year.Kai-Fu Lee, the author of “AI Superpowers” and a longtime technology executive, predicts that artificial intelligence will eliminate 40 percent of the world’s jobs within 15 years. In an interview, he said that chief executives were under enormous pressure from shareholders and boards to maximize short-term profits, and that the rapid shift toward automation was the inevitable result.“They always say it’s more than the stock price,” he said. “But in the end, if you screw up, you get fired.”Other experts have predicted that A.I. will create more new jobs than it destroys, and that job losses caused by automation will probably not be catastrophic. They point out that some automation helps workers by improving productivity and freeing them to focus on creative tasks over routine ones.But at a time of political unrest and anti-elite movements on the progressive left and the nationalist right, it’s probably not surprising that all of this automation is happening quietly, out of public view. In Davos this week, several executives declined to say how much money they had saved by automating jobs previously done by humans. And none were willing to say publicly that replacing human workers is their ultimate goal.“That’s the great dichotomy,” said Ben Pring, the director of the Center for the Future of Work at Cognizant, a technology services firm. “On one hand,” he said, profit-minded executives “absolutely want to automate as much as they can.”“On the other hand,” he added, “they’re facing a backlash in civic society.”For an unvarnished view of how some American leaders talk about automation in private, you have to listen to their counterparts in Asia, who often make no attempt to hide their aims. Terry Gou, the chairman of the Taiwanese electronics manufacturer Foxconn, has said the company plans to replace 80 percent of its workers with robots in the next five to 10 years. Richard Liu, the founder of the Chinese e-commerce company JD.com, said at a business conference last year that “I hope my company would be 100 percent automation someday.”One common argument made by executives is that workers whose jobs are eliminated by automation can be “reskilled” to perform other jobs in an organization. They offer examples like Accenture, which claimed in 2017 to have replaced 17,000 back-office processing jobs without layoffs, by training employees to work elsewhere in the company. In a letter to shareholders last year, Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, said that more than 16,000 Amazon warehouse workers had received training in high-demand fields like nursing and aircraft mechanics, with the company covering 95 percent of their expenses.But these programs may be the exception that proves the rule. There are plenty of stories of successful reskilling — optimists often cite a program in Kentucky that trained a small group of former coal miners to become computer programmers — but there is little evidence that it works at scale. A report by the World Economic Forum this month estimated that of the 1.37 million workers who are projected to be fully displaced by automation in the next decade, only one in four can be profitably reskilled by private-sector programs. The rest, presumably, will need to fend for themselves or rely on government assistance.In Davos, executives tend to speak about automation as a natural phenomenon over which they have no control, like hurricanes or heat waves. They claim that if they don’t automate jobs as quickly as possible, their competitors will.“They will be disrupted if they don’t,” said Katy George, a senior partner at the consulting firm McKinsey & Company.Automating work is a choice, of course, one made harder by the demands of shareholders, but it is still a choice. And even if some degree of unemployment caused by automation is inevitable, these executives can choose how the gains from automation and A.I. are distributed, and whether to give the excess profits they reap as a result to workers, or hoard it for themselves and their shareholders.The choices made by the Davos elite — and the pressure applied on them to act in workers’ interests rather than their own — will determine whether A.I. is used as a tool for increasing productivity or for inflicting pain.“The choice isn’t between automation and non-automation,” said Erik Brynjolfsson, the director of M.I.T.’s Initiative on the Digital Economy. “It’s between whether you use the technology in a way that creates shared prosperity, or more concentration of wealth.”Kevin Roose is a columnist for Business Day and a writer-at-large for The New York Times Magazine. His column, “The Shift,” examines the intersection of technology, business, and culture. @kevinroose • FacebookAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben Hubbard and Javier C. HernándezCAIRO — In his swing through Asia this week, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia vowed to invest billions of dollars in Pakistan and pushed to sell more oil to India. He will also explore deepening economic ties with China.The trip, by the de facto ruler of a wealthy Arab kingdom that has long considered the United States its most important ally, highlights the extent to which Saudi Arabia is increasingly looking to Asia for political and technological support that it cannot always count on from the West, analysts said.Saudi Arabia’s need to diversify its alliances has grown more acute amid the Western backlash over the killing of the Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi by Saudi agents in Istanbul in October. Congress has pursued measures to blame Prince Mohammed for the killing and limit military aid to the kingdom, while American tech companies that the prince heavily courted for projects in the kingdom have stepped back for fear of damaging their reputations.But the countries that Prince Mohammed is visiting this week — Pakistan, India and China — have expressed no such concerns, prioritizing economic ties with the kingdom over concerns about its respect for human rights.In turning east, the Saudis are also sending a message to the West, analysts said.“The Saudi leadership recognizes that it’s integral to diversify its relationships,” said Mohammed Turki al-Sudairi, a Hong Kong-based researcher for the King Faisal Center for Research and Islamic Studies. “The message is that there are other options out there.”Historically, Saudi Arabia’s relationship with Asia was mostly transactional, with the kingdom selling crude oil to power Asian economies while importing manufactured products. Since his father, King Salman, came to the Saudi throne in 2015, Prince Mohammed, 33, has been seeking to deepen the kingdom’s relationships with Asian countries and has made previous visits to the region.He began this tour on Sunday in Pakistan, a fellow Islamic country that welcomed him like a hero, with a 21-gun salute and fighter jet escort. President Arif Alvi granted him Pakistan’s highest award, and the head of the Senate gave him a gold-plated assault rifle.Prime Minister Imran Khan had spoken about Pakistan’s dire need for Saudi funds to ward off an economic crisis, and Prince Mohammed delivered, signing tentative agreements for investments of up to $20 billion in mining, agriculture, energy and other sectors and promising to free thousands of Pakistanis in Saudi prisons.“This is not charity, this is an investment,” said Adel al-Jubeir, the Saudi minister of state for foreign affairs. “There is benefit for both sides.”How much benefit remains to be seen, as many of the agreements were nonbinding memorandums of understanding that are often not fulfilled.On Tuesday, Prince Mohammed traveled to India, where he was welcomed with drumming and a bear hug from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. India is an important provider of labor for Saudi Arabia, with millions of Indians working in the kingdom.During the visit, the prince was expected to press India to buy more Saudi oil to fuel its fast-growing economy and to take market share away from Iran, the kingdom’s primary rival.On Wednesday, Prince Mohammed is set to land in China for talks on Thursday and Friday with President Xi Jinping and other officials. China is the largest buyer of Saudi crude oil, and ties between the two countries have been expanding to other sectors like technology and e-commerce.The relationship has grown because both countries have ambitious development plans that they believe the other can help achieve. Along with seeing Saudi Arabia as a stable source of oil, China hopes that the kingdom can play a role in its Belt and Road Initiative, an ambitious plan by Mr. Xi to build rail lines, power networks and roads to better connect China to allies in Europe and Africa.On the Saudi side, Prince Mohammed has begun plans to open up the kingdom and diversify its economy, a project called Vision 2030, and he hopes that Chinese companies will help it succeed.“China has the experience, funds, technology and talents for the Vision 2030,” said Li Guofu, a researcher on Middle Eastern issues at the China Institute of International Studies, a research organization overseen by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs.Chinese-Saudi cooperation has already moved into new fields. The two countries agreed in 2017 to open a factory in Saudi Arabia to build Chinese drones. And last year, China launched two observation satellites for Saudi Arabia.Facilitating Chinese-Saudi ties is a shared outlook that prioritizes economics while each ignores the other’s domestic governance and human rights practices. China has remained quiet about the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, while Saudi Arabia has not criticized China’s mass internment of members of its Muslim minority.That could increase the possibilities for Saudi tech companies.During a tour of the United States last year, Prince Mohammed visited the headquarters of Google and Apple, and met with the Amazon chief, Jeff Bezos, hoping to get them involved in his development plans. But after Mr. Khashoggi’s killing, the talks stopped and a range of American businesses suspended their ties with the kingdom.Mr. Li, the Chinese analyst, said the Saudis were currently “very uncomfortable” in their relationship with the United States and Europe, where many governments have condemned the killing.“This is also a very important reason that Saudi Arabia is making this kind of strategic adjustment,” he said.Chinese companies have not balked, looking for new markets as their domestic economy slows. Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications company that American officials have labeled a potential national security threat, opened a store last month in the Saudi capital, Riyadh, its largest outpost in the Middle East.While Amazon has suspended plans to open an office in the kingdom, Jollychic, a Chinese e-commerce business, has expanded its Riyadh headquarters.“Chinese tech companies’ positions on security and public safety are differentiators with Middle Eastern governments,” said Sam Blatteis, the previous Google head of Gulf government relations and now the co-founder of The MENA Catalysts, a consulting firm. “They are in a similar place on the trade-offs on the shifting frontier between privacy and security.”Even as it courts Saudi leaders, China has been careful not to alienate other Middle Eastern countries. On Tuesday, for example, Wang Yi, the Chinese foreign minister, told his Iranian counterpart, Mohammad Javad Zarif, that he wanted to deepen “strategic trust” between the two countries during a meeting in Beijing.“China has never picked sides and its principle is balanced relations,” said Zou Zhiqiang, an assistant professor at the Middle East Studies Institute at Shanghai International Studies University. “China will not agree to actions such as confronting Iran just to cooperate with Saudi Arabia.”Despite the kingdom’s growing ties with Asia, few expect a full break with the United States. The kingdom has spent hundreds of billions of dollars on American weapons, many of which come with long-term maintenance agreements that make it difficult for the Saudis to switch to other systems.And despite the anger at Saudi Arabia in Congress, President Trump has stood by Prince Mohammed, considering him an essential partner in his administration’s plans to push back against Iran and pursue a peace deal between Israel and the Palestinians.“China is increasingly an important player and an important partner for the kingdom, but if you look at the strategic relationship with America, nobody can replace the United States,” said Mohammed Alyahya, editor in chief of Al Arabiya English, a Saudi-owned news site. “So I think that the idea of a pivot is inaccurate.”Ben Hubbard reported from Cairo, and Javier C. Hernández from Beijing. Albee Zhang contributed research from Beijing.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Karen WeiseSEATTLE — The Seattle area, home to both Microsoft and Amazon, is a potent symbol of the affordable housing crisis that has followed the explosive growth of tech hubs. Now Microsoft, arguing that the industry has an interest and responsibility to help people left behind in communities transformed by the boom, is putting up $500 million to help address the problem.Microsoft’s money represents the most ambitious effort by a tech company to directly address the inequality that has spread in areas where the industry is concentrated, particularly on the West Coast. It will fund construction for homes affordable not only to the company’s own non-tech workers, but also for teachers, firefighters and other middle- and low-income residents.Microsoft’s move comes less than a year after Amazon successfully pushed to block a new tax in Seattle that would have made large businesses pay a per-employee tax to fund homeless services and the construction of affordable housing. The company said the tax created a disincentive to create jobs. Microsoft, which is based in nearby Redmond, Wash., and has few employees who work in the city, did not take a position on the tax.The debate about the rapid growth of the tech industry and the inequality that often follows has spilled across the country, particularly as Amazon, with billions of taxpayer subsidies, announced plans to build major campuses in Long Island City, Queens, and Arlington, Va., that would employ a total of at least 50,000 people. In New York, elected officials and residents have raised concerns that Amazon has not made commitments to support affordable housing.Microsoft has been at the vanguard of warning about the potential negative effects of technology, like privacy or the unintended consequences of artificial intelligence. Executives hope the housing efforts will spur other companies to follow its lead.“We believe everybody has a role to play, and everybody needs to play their role,” said Brad Smith, Microsoft’s president and chief legal officer.The company’s strong finances, a sign of its resurgence under Satya Nadella as chief executive, have given it resources to deploy, Mr. Smith said. In October, the company reported net income of $8.8 billion in its most recent quarter, up 34 percent, and it had almost $136 billion in cash and short-term investments on its balance sheet. The company’s stock has risen steadily under Mr. Nadella, and Microsoft is now valued at over $800 billion.A number of other tech businesses have tried to address the homeless crisis. Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos, has supported homeless service providers through his personal foundation, and the Salesforce chief executive, Marc Benioff, helped fund a proposition in San Francisco to tax businesses to pay for homeless services. Voters approved the tax in November, rejecting opposition from some tech leaders, including Twitter’s chief executive, Jack Dorsey.Others plan to build housing for their own employees. Such housing may help with demand, but it has also reinforced the impression that the companies are focused too closely on their own backyards.“This is long-range thinking by a company that has been around for a long time, and plans to be around for a long time,” said Margaret O’Mara, a professor at the University of Washington who studies the history of tech companies.Microsoft began researching the region’s housing last summer, after the nasty tax fight in Seattle and around a peak of the housing market. The company analyzed data and hired a consultant to decide how to focus its work. The area’s home prices have almost doubled in the past eight years, and Mr. Smith said he learned that “the region has counterintuitively done less to build middle-income housing than low-income housing, especially in the suburbs.”That squeeze hits a range of workers. “Of course, we have lots of software engineers, but the reality is that a lot of people work for Microsoft. Cafeteria workers, shuttle drivers,” Mr. Nadella said this week at a meeting with editors at the company’s headquarters. “It is a supply problem, a market failure.”Microsoft plans to lend $225 million at subsidized rates to preserve and build middle-income housing in six cities near its Redmond headquarters. It will put an additional $250 million into low-income housing across the region. Some of those loans may be made through the federal programs that provide tax breaks for low-income housing.The company plans to invest the money within three years, and expects most of it to go to Seattle’s suburbs.The loans could go to private or nonprofit developers, or to governmental groups like the King County Housing Authority. As the loans are repaid, Mr. Smith said, Microsoft plans to lend the money out again to support additional projects.The remaining $25 million will be grants to local organizations that work with the homeless, including legal aid for people fighting eviction. The Seattle Times reported Wednesday that if the $500 million were put into one project, it would create only about 1,000 units, so instead Microsoft will most likely put smaller amounts in many projects to help build “tens of thousands of units.”The initial reaction to the company’s announcement was positive.“There is almost no level of housing that isn’t direly needed,” said Claudia Balducci, a member of the King County Council who helps lead the Regional Affordable Housing Task Force.A report in December by the task force said that the region needs 156,000 more affordable housing units, and will need 88,000 more units by 2040 to accommodate future growth.A growing body of research has tied the lack of affordable housing to increasing homelessness. A December study from the real estate website Zillow said that was particularly true when households pay more than a third of their income in rent. The New York, Boston, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle regions — the country’s largest tech hubs — have all already crossed that threshold.“The idea that you can live in your bubble and put your fingers in your ears just doesn’t work anymore,” said Steve Schwartz, head of public affairs at Tableau Software, which is based in Seattle.Amazon in recent years has worked closely with Mary’s Place, a homeless shelter for women and children in Seattle, and is integrating a shelter for about 65 families into one of its new buildings. Amazon has paid tens of millions of dollars to the city’s affordable housing trust fund as fees to build in the core of Seattle.Amazon declined to comment.Google supported the City of Mountain View’s plan to add 10,000 housing units in an area it’s developing, with 20 percent designated for lower-income residents. And Facebook has planned to build 1,500 apartments near its Menlo Park headquarters, with 15 percent to be affordable.Microsoft has begun a major overhaul of its main campus in Redmond, committing billions of dollars in renovations and connecting it to a light rail station under construction. The company helped finance a successful campaign for voters to approve more property taxes to pay for transportation. This new investment in housing takes its commitments a step further.“This is where Microsoft is going to be, and the region needs to work,” Ms. Balducci said. “I don’t think this is wholly altruism.”Follow Karen Weise on Twitter: @kyweise.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest._____1. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi postponed an official trip to Europe and Afghanistan over security concerns after President Trump grounded her military flight and White House officials leaked a secret plan for her to fly commercially.It was the latest turn in a bitter tit-for-tat between the president and Ms. Pelosi, who asked Mr. Trump on Wednesday to postpone his State of the Union address.Late in the day Friday, Mr. Trump tweeted he would be making a “major announcement” about the southern border and government shutdown at 3 p.m. on Saturday from the White House.Separately, Democratic lawmakers pledged to investigate a report that President Trump directed his former lawyer Michael Cohen to lie to Congress._____2. President Trump plans to meet again with North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, in February to push the North to begin denuclearization.Negotiations over North Korea’s nuclear arsenal have made little progress since the two leaders’ first meeting in Singapore last June, above, and the new meeting is a sign of how quickly the president has backed away from his initial insistence on fast action by Pyongyang.The announcement came after Mr. Trump met for 90 minutes in the Oval Office with Mr. Kim’s chief nuclear negotiator.The date and location of the meeting will be announced later, the White House said. Vietnam, Thailand and Hawaii have all been mentioned as potential sites._____3. Winter is here.A major storm has swept across the Rockies and should reach the Midwest and Northeast over the three-day holiday weekend, bringing heavy snow, strong winds and frigid temperatures.The system is expected to snarl travel, with winter weather advisories stretching from the Dakotas to Maine. Extreme cold will follow for tens of millions of people.Bundle up, and visit nytimes.com for updates. While you’re waiting, check out these early Times photographs of snowstorms in New York in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Above, a 1914 blizzard._____4. A white Chicago police officer was sentenced to nearly 7 years in prison for murdering Laquan McDonald, a black teenager who became a national symbol of police brutality.Jason Van Dyke, above, is the city’s first patrolman in almost 50 years to be convicted of murder. He was also sentenced for 16 counts of aggravated battery with a firearm, one for every bullet he fired on that October night in 2014.The killing was captured in a dashcam video seen by millions of horrified viewers. Though an appeal is likely, the sentence provided a measure of finality in a case that exposed the city’s racial divisions and upended its government._____5. RCA Records has dropped R. Kelly, the R&B star accused of decades of misconduct, after weeks of protests and a documentary series that drew national attention.Mr. Kelly, once one of the biggest and most influential stars in pop music, has been dogged by accusations of sexual misconduct since the mid-1990s, when he was sued by women who said he had engaged in sexual activity with them when they were as young as 15.A campaign on social media, #MuteRKelly, asked entertainment companies to stop doing business with Mr. Kelly. The pressure intensified this month after Lifetime broadcast a six-part documentary series, “Surviving R. Kelly,” which included on-camera testimonials by numerous women who said Mr. Kelly had abused them while they were underage._____6. Microsoft made a $500 million pledge this week to help address the affordable housing crisis in the Seattle area.And the company isn’t simply writing checks or building new units — it’s trying to help fix a market failure, a job government typically does.The announcement is welcome news in the region, where housing costs have risen faster lately than in any other part of the country, like the Ballard neighborhood, above. But the fact that a tech company has to step in points to a long-building reality nationwide: The federal government has largely retreated from this role.As Microsoft unveiled its plans, the Department of Housing and Urban Development remained largely shuttered in Washington during the government shutdown._____7. Divorce is always complicated — even more so when a company’s future is on the line.The announcement that Jeff Bezos and his wife, Mackenzie, are splitting up instantly raised questions about the couple’s $140 billion stake in Amazon.Amazon’s investors should be paying attention, our business columnist writes. So should investors in other companies with billionaire founders: Google, Facebook and Snap to name a few. These entrepreneurs often hold special classes of stock that give them extra power.More such breakups are inevitable — after all, many tech founders are only now reaching the age for the proverbial midlife crisis._____8. The streets are closed in Cremona, Italy, and the mayor has asked citizens for silence. Even a broken glass may trigger a police visit.Cremona was once home to Antonio Stradivari, who in the 17th and 18th centuries produced some of the finest violins and cellos ever made. And an ambitious project to digitally record the sounds of his instruments requires absolute quiet.Sound engineers using 32 ultrasensitive microphones are producing a database to store all the possible tones that four instruments selected from the Museo del Violino’s collection can produce. The quiet, and the recording, lasts through January._____9. “When it’s blue sky and you’re on the polar plateau, you can feel so small.”Colin O’Brady, 33, right, and Louis Rudd, 49, spent almost two months racing solo across Antarctica, a journey that killed an explorer who attempted it in 2016. They faced wind chills around minus 70 degrees Fahrenheit, whiteout days with little visibility and isolation, for starters.Back in warmer climates, they spoke about the race of a lifetime.“It’s just endless, and you’re like this tiny little speck,” Mr. Brady said. “You are the only tiny little thing out there in this endless sea of light.”_____10. Finally, it’s not just humans looking for love online.Romeo was a lonely male Bolivian Sehuencas water frog, thought to be the last of his kind. So conservationists made a dating profile for him — as a fund-raiser — and raised enough to send a team into the cloud forest to find his Juliet.And find her they did. Researchers have high hopes that the species will be saved, as soon as Juliet is out of quarantine for disease testing.After all, one scientist said, “We don’t want Romeo to get sick on the first date.”Have a fulfilling weekend.We’re off for the Martin Luther King Jr. holiday on Monday and will be back Tuesday._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Inyoung Kang(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’ve got breaking news on two continents today, a crisis at the southwestern border, and a new Brexit deadline.The WikiLeaks founder faces one count of conspiracy to hack a computer related to his role in the 2010 release of classified U.S. documents, according to court documents unsealed today shortly after his arrest in London. He was arrested at the Ecuadorean Embassy, where he had lived since 2012, after Ecuador withdrew the asylum it had granted him.President Lenín Moreno of Ecuador said that his country had decided to stop sheltering Mr. Assange after “his repeated violations to international conventions and daily-life protocols.” The background: After WikiLeaks released the classified material in 2010, Mr. Assange, 47, took refuge in the embassy two years later to avoid extradition to Sweden, where he faced questions about sexual assault allegations. He is also suspected of aiding Russian interference in the 2016 election by releasing material stolen from the Democrats.The country’s military ousted President Omar al-Bashir today, ending a 30-year authoritarian rule in the face of mass street protests.Mr. al-Bashir, 75, is accused of war crimes and is wanted by the International Criminal Court in connection with genocide in Darfur, where hundreds of thousands were killed. He was taken into custody, the government was dissolved and the Constitution suspended, the defense minister said.Some of the protesters called for caution while awaiting a statement from the military.“The uprising continues,” a spokeswoman said, adding that they would continue “until there is a complete step down of the whole regime.”Go deeper: Mr. al-Bashir liked to play up his humble origins to project a folksy image that contrasted with his image in the West, where he was often seen as a heartless warmonger.There had been warnings for years that America’s immigration system was on the brink of failure.That moment may have arrived: The country is now failing to provide either necessary humanitarian relief or basic controls on the number and nature of who comes in.By the numbers: At the current pace of nearly 100,000 migrants a month, officials say more than a million people will have tried to enter the country in a 12-month period. The flow of migrant families has reached record levels — as many as 27,000 children are expected to arrive in April.Voices: “Infectious disease is everywhere,” a Border Patrol union leader said. “It’s dangerous for our agents. It’s dangerous for the detainees that don’t have anything.”William Barr said on Wednesday that the government had surveilled Donald Trump’s presidential campaign, and that he was preparing to review “both the genesis and the conduct” of that inquiry. “I think spying on a political campaign is a big deal,” he said.Mr. Barr also offered more details of the Russia investigation by the special counsel, Robert Mueller, adding that he hoped to release the redacted report next week.Yesterday: The Treasury Department declined to immediately give President Trump’s tax returns to Congress, saying it needed more time to assess the lawfulness of the request. Here’s what we might learn from the documents.Looking ahead: Gregory Craig, a White House counsel during the Obama administration, is expected to be indicted on charges related to his work for Ukraine, his lawyers said. The case stemmed from an investigation initiated by Mr. Mueller’s office.As companies and governments gain new abilities to follow people across the internet and around the world, the costs and benefits of technological advances are becoming clearer.The Times is beginning a project to explore the debate around those changes.See for yourself: What do you think should be private? Take our survey.Quote of note: “We in the West are building a surveillance state,” our columnist writes. “But while China is doing it through government, we are doing it through corporations and consumer products, in the absence of any real regulation that recognizes the stakes at hand.”Huaraz, a Peruvian city of 130,000, sits about 14 miles below this swelling glacial lake. Many residents live in fear that an avalanche could cause a flood that would wipe away their homes.Our Sunday Magazine’s climate issue looks at how and why a Peruvian farmer sued a German utility company — and what the effort might teach us about litigating a complex global problem.Brexit extension: European Union leaders have agreed to push the deadline for Britain’s departure from the bloc to Oct. 31, staving off a potentially chaotic, no-deal exit that had been scheduled for Friday.Aftermath of Israeli vote: With nearly all of the votes from Tuesday’s election counted, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was poised for a fifth term. The results attest to the starkly conservative vision of Israeli voters, our Jerusalem bureau chief writes in a news analysis.Elections in India: Voting began today in the world’s largest democracy. Here’s a guide to the election, which lasts five weeks and involves 900 million voters.Uber I.P.O.: The ride-hailing giant told some investors that a public stock sale could give the company a $100 billion valuation — below a $120 billion that investment bankers had floated. Its shares are expected to begin trading next month.National Enquirer: The tabloid is nearing a sale, the publisher said. Its owner is said to have grown uncomfortable being at the center of a federal inquiry over claims by Jeff Bezos that it had threatened him.Snapshot: Above, scientists on Wednesday released the first-ever view of a black hole, at the heart of a galaxy some 55 million light-years from Earth. “We have seen what we thought was unseeable,” said Shep Doeleman, the director of the effort to capture the image.Late-night comedy: Samantha Bee drew on “The Wizard of Oz” in discussing the departure of Kirstjen Nielsen, who “stepped down as Homeland Security secretary, presumably to spend more time with her family after a house fell on her sister.” What we’re reading: Comic strips on Instagram. Michael Roston, a science editor, writes: “If you really miss the funny pages in newspapers of yore, try Instagram. For months, my feed has been dominated by comics made for the medium, and I couldn’t be happier. Once you follow a few, Instagram’s algorithm will serve up more. Here’s a starter pack: Strange Planet, Rubyetc and They Can Talk.”Cook: Lemony whipped feta pairs well with pita chips or raw vegetables.Watch: A boy discovers his superpowers in a scene from “Shazam!,” with commentary from the film’s director, David F. Sandberg.Listen: Tayla Parx has helped several pop stars, including Ariana Grande, refresh their sound. Her own debut album is “We Need to Talk.”Read: “The Heart of a Boy,” a collection of photographs celebrating boyhood by Kate T. Parker, debuts on our paperback nonfiction best-seller list.Smarter Living: A computer science professor offers clear guidance on digital decluttering: Remove most apps from your phone and use them on a browser instead. And spend leisure time doing activities that have nothing to do with glowing screens.Here are five things to help you free yourself from smartphone dependence.“Star Wars” aficionados, some in Wookiee fur, are gathering for Celebration, a marketing stunt in galactic disguise, organized by Disney’s Lucasfilm. The 13th installment begins in Chicago today.Disney wants to rally the faithful for the December release of the next “Star Wars” episode. The title is to be announced on Friday.Billions of dollars in movie tickets, merchandise and video-on-demand rentals are on the line.Safe to say it will not be “Episode IX — We Will Keep This Going Until Tatooine Freezes Over.”“Make Alderaan Great Again”? Or a musical? “A Death Star Is Born.”Fans have spent months guessing. A Reddit user floated “Balance of the Force,” citing coding buried on StarWars.com. The subtitles do tend to be something of the something — “Return of the Jedi,” “Attack of the Clones,” “Revenge of the Sith.”The promotion can either help fans to move past their grouchiness about the eighth movie, “The Last Jedi,” or prompt another rebellion that will send Disney marketers to battle positions.This morning has been busy, but that’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— InyoungThank youTo Chris Stanford, who helped compile today’s briefing, and to Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Brooks Barnes, our reporter for all things Hollywood, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Israel’s election.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Swirl of water (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The New York Times Company named a vice president of corporate security last week: Jason Reich, the former director of global security for BuzzFeed Inc.Inyoung Kang is an editor and producer based in London.  @inyoungk Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Venezuela’s opposition leader vows to return to the country, India and Pakistan are still at loggerheads and we go inside the Trump-Kim talks. Here’s the latest: Venezuela’s opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, has toured South America for much of the past week. Defying a government-imposed travel ban, he met with the far-right president of Brazil and the center-left president of Ecuador, among others, to demonstrate the broad international support for his claim to be the legitimate leader of Venezuela. Each day he spends out the country, though, he risks losing the unity of opposition parties, already reeling after President Nicolás Maduro last month reduced Mr. Guaidó’s promised “aid avalanche” at the border to a few flakes. Mr. Guaidó had vowed to re-enter Venezuela as those aid shipments broke through Mr. Maduro’s blockade. He has now set a deadline of this morning for his return. Mr. Maduro has threatened to have him arrested. Bigger picture: With Mr. Maduro firmly controlling the borders, and defections from his military so far a trickle, the opposition is realizing that the government’s rule appears to be more durable than Mr. Guaidó had painted it.Looking ahead: The secretary general of the Organization of American States, Luis Almagro, who is one of Mr. Guaidó’s chief international supporters, softened his demands on Mr. Maduro, saying he would not object to his running for office again in new elections if they were free and fair. The two nuclear-armed neighbors exchanged artillery fire on Saturday, killing at least five civilians and two soldiers and making it clear that hostilities over the disputed Kashmir region are hardly over.The recent flare-up, with both sides accusing the other of firing first, came just a day after Pakistan returned a captured Indian pilot as a good-will gesture.Dispute: Independent security analysts continue to question India’s claim that it targeted a “large number” of terrorists at a major training camp in Pakistan last week. Satellite imagery of the area showed India “didn’t hit their targets,” according to a think tank in Washington.Go deeper: After an aging Indian warplane was shot down by Pakistan, New Delhi’s military preparedness is under renewed scrutiny. The Indian military is in such a troubled state that, according to government estimates, if intense warfare broke out tomorrow its troops would have enough ammunition for only 10 days.On the ground: Kashmir’s complicated history, tugged in different directions by two muscular powers, has left its local population with a dark future and under the constant threat of death.The nuclear talks in Vietnam last week between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, the North Korean leader, were doomed before they even started, with no basic starting point established and  some of Mr. Trump’s aides questioning whether they should happen. Banking on the force of his own personality and their rapport, Mr. Trump offered Mr. Kim the same deal North Korea has rejected for a quarter-century: total nuclear disarmament in exchange for full sanctions relief. For his part, Mr. Kim miscalculated that Mr. Trump might accept a more modest offer. In an effort to maintain Mr. Trump’s détente with Mr. Kim, the Pentagon will hold off on large-scale military exercises with South Korea this spring, though a limited version is still expected to go forward. Mr. Trump first suspended the military exercises after his initial meeting with Mr. Kim last year, surprising the Pentagon. Another angle: North Korean hackers kept up attacks against European and American targets last week even during the meeting, cybersecurity researchers said.If the French language has a fortress, it is the imposing Académie Française, so exclusive that some of the greatest French writers have been turned away. Since the 17th century, members known as the Immortals have updated the definitive dictionary of French in an effort to protect the language against such ravages as the “deadly snobbery of Anglo-American.” But lately the academy has struggled to fill vacancies, a paralysis that reflects France’s own struggle to adapt to the 21st century. “We’re the reflection of the society, and it’s a society that’s questioning itself,” one member said.Saudi Arabia: Walid Fitaihi, a U.S. citizen initially detained at the Ritz Carlton hotel in Riyadh as part of what the Saudi government has billed as a crackdown on corruption, has been imprisoned without any public charges or trial since 2017. His friend says he has also been tortured — including being shocked with electricity and whipped.Britain: Landlord checks on a prospective tenant’s immigration status lead to racial discrimination and violate human rights, a court found. The ruling was a blow to Prime Minister Theresa May, who has championed “hostile environment” policies to deter illegal immigration.China: The country’s vast detention program for Muslims has required more and more police officers. Some of them are being recruited from the very ethnic groups that are being targeted.Syria: The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons found “reasonable grounds” that chlorine weapons were used in the assault on the town of Douma last year that killed 43 people. The U.S. and its allies blamed President Bashar al-Assad for the attack and launched punitive airstrikes against government targets at the time.Turkey: A suburb made up of Disney-style chateaus is no magic kingdom — it  is unfinished, in bankruptcy and much criticized for its architecture — but the minicastles are still for sale. Chris Grayling: The political survival of Britain’s transport minister has baffled many who accuse him of staggering incompetence, but his loyalty to Mrs. May has protected him. Medicine: In the U.S., a colossal battle is underway over the regulation of fecal transplants, a revolutionary procedure used to treat life-threatening problems. Jeff Bezos: For years, Amazon’s chief executive kept a low profile. But in recent weeks, his discreet, focused life has become tangled in Hollywood’s gossip machine.Kidfluencers: Brands like Mattel and Crayola are striking lucrative deals with toddlers and tweens with large social media followings (some deals can fetch up to $50,000).In memoriam: Zhores Alferov, a Russian physicist and committed communist who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 2000 for research that underpinned inventions integral to modern life like solar cells and cellphones, has died at 88.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Start the week with a bracing, spicy dinner of vegetarian mapo tofu.If you have friends or loved ones who are survivors of sexual abuse or assault, here are ways you can help their recovery.Traveling while holding down a full-time job sounds too good to be true. But it can be done.On Tuesday, the end of the women’s ready-to-wear season in Paris, the last of Karl Lagerfeld’s enormous sets for Chanel will be revealed — the final gesture of a man who shaped fashion as we know it. He died on Feb. 19.Though many designers have created dramatic shows — most notably Alexander McQueen, John Galliano when he headed his own brand and currently Thom Browne — none reached the extremes of Mr. Lagerfeld. He once imported (and then returned) a Swedish iceberg, had a rocket launch and created a sandy beach with real surf — all within the glass-roofed confines of the Grand Palais.Though I was never as big a fan of these fantasy moments as many of my peers (I believed the money could be better spent elsewhere, like on a charitable foundation), they were the markers of a time that is coming to a close, symbols of a vision that bridged the couture and Instagram eras.Get ready for the farewell hurrah. Given that Mr. Lagerfeld never did anything by half measures, it is bound to be a doozy.Vanessa Friedman, the chief fashion critic at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. Follow her on Twitter for live updates from this week’s show.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. President Trump considers side-stepping Congress, India proposes new censorship measures and China brings digital propaganda to the people. Here’s the latest: Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, said that the president planned to make the declaration, allowing him to bypass Congress to get funds for his promised wall at the southern border.That would set up a constitutional clash with lawmakers over who controls the federal purse. Here’s how a national emergency declaration would work.Mr. McConnell said Mr. Trump would act after signing off on a border security deal that Congress is about to approve to avert another government shutdown. The deal provides just a fraction of the wall funding Mr. Trump had demanded.Other news from Washington: Andrew McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director, said that the agency was so alarmed by President Trump’s decision to fire the bureau’s director, James Comey, in 2017 that Justice Department officials considered encouraging cabinet members to invoke a constitutional amendment to remove him from office.Meanwhile, the Senate confirmed William Barr as attorney general, despite concerns from Democrats that he might not make public the findings of his department’s ongoing Russia investigation. The technology giant announced it wasn’t going to “move forward” with plans to build a sprawling corporate campus in Long Island City, Queens, after stiff opposition from some local lawmakers and unions empowered by the rise of Democratic political strength.Amazon had forecast that the campus would have created more than 25,000 jobs.The opposition: A point of contention was the $3 billion package of incentives and subsidies the city and state agreed to — their largest ever, dedicated to one of the world’s richest companies. City officials had also agreed to remake plans for the Queens waterfront and give the company’s chief, Jeff Bezos, access to a helicopter pad.There was also concern over the company’s anti-union practices and the changes its huge presence would bring to Queens. Before Amazon’s announcement, we looked at the resistance.The government has proposed new measures that would give it more power to monitor and suppress information on the internet, drawing comparisons with China’s muscular censorship.“The proposed changes have an authoritarian bent,” said one activist.Details: The new rules would allow Indian officials to demand the removal of posts or videos from Facebook, Twitter, Google, TikTok and other platforms that they deem libelous, hateful, deceptive or invasive of privacy.Internet companies would also have to build new tools that would enable blockling “unlawful information or content,” and would need to weaken privacy protections of messaging services, like WhatsApp, so that authorities can trace messages back to their original senders.What’s next? Public comment on the proposal has ended so Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s government could implement the measures at any time. The administration has been eager to push this through before national election dates are announced, which would trigger special pre-election measures that limit new policies.Working independently as well as through trade groups, Microsoft, Facebook and dozens of other tech companies are fighting back against the proposals.As the U.S. works with the Taliban on a peace deal to end nearly two decades of war, many young Afghans are worried that the basic liberties they have become used to under a civilian government could be at risk.This year, Valentine’s Day turned into a day of protest, with poetry expressing not love but fear.One verse in particular — “I kiss you amid the Taliban” — has turned into a rallying cry for young artists and activists.Background: Last month, the Taliban and U.S. negotiators agreed in principle to a framework for the phased withdrawal of American troops, but the Afghan government has been left out of the process. And women, in particular, have voiced concerns about their rights in the future.Kashmir: A vehicle filled with explosives ran into a convoy of paramilitary forces in the Indian-controlled part of Kashmir, killing at least 40 soldiers — perhaps the deadliest attack there in 20 years. The Jaish-e-Muhammed, which the U.S. considers a terrorist organization, quickly claimed responsibility.Saudi Arabia: Apple and Google are being pressured to remove an app that lets male “guardians” track and restrict the movement of women in the kingdom, accusing the tech companies of enabling gender discrimination.Philippines: Maria Ressa, the co-founder of Rappler, a news start-up that has been critical of President Rodrigo Duterte, was released on bail a day after she was arrested in a digital libel case.Brazil: After a mining dam collapsed last month, burying more than a 150 people under mud, our team used geospatial analysis to map out other high risk areas.Switzerland: A warmer climate is rapidly melting away most of the glaciers in the Alps, and engineers are working on how to adjust their approach to the country’s biggest energy source — water.Ryan Adams: Seven women and over a dozen associates came forward with accounts of how the prolific singer-songwriter and ex-husband of Mandy Moore dangled career opportunities while pursuing female artists for sex. He has denied the accusations.Egypt: The country’s Parliament approved a sweeping measure that clears the way for President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to stay in power until 2034, further entrenching his authoritarian rule and the military’s dominance.Airbus: The aircraft maker said it would cease production of the mammoth double-decker A380. Orders for the plane dwindled as air travel shifted focus to smaller jets and regional airports.JPMorgan Chase: The financial giant became the first major U.S. bank to issue its own cryptocurrency. The JPM Coin, representing a single U.S. dollar, will enter testing in a few months.China: A new app designed by the government allows users to catch up on the latest state media reports, view a quote of the day from President Xi Jinping and quiz themselves on his policies. It’s Beijing’s latest effort to bring Communist Party propaganda initiatives into the digital age.Brexit: The increasingly messy divorce between Britain and the E.U. bloc is, according to the Dutch, akin to a furry blue monster.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Wait, you don’t need a recipe. Sam Sifton gives you 38 ways to get dinner on the table without one.The environmental impact of growing flowers commercially is higher than you might think. Here’s how a romantic can stay green.Considering a trip to one of our “52 Places to Go in 2019”? We’ve collected 52 books to help you explore each spot. Our Back Story on Wednesday on the Fahrenheit and Celsius scales included a fact surprising to us: The temperature scale devised by Anders Celsius in the early 18th century set the boiling point at zero degrees and the freezing point at 100, the opposite of current use.It was a surprise to some readers as well, who wrote in to ask if we had our facts straight.Fortunately, we did. Celsius was from Sweden, and wanted to be able to measure frigid temperatures without using negative numbers. That’s because the minus sign could be missed, resulting in errors.Many attribute the reversal to Carl Linnaeus, known as the father of taxonomy. Also a Swede, in the 1740s, he ordered a thermometer using Celsius’ gradations, but with calibration shifted to move in the same direction as Fahrenheit’s.Know of any other facts that are so counter to conventional wisdom or understanding that they sound wrong? Email us, with “Odd fact” in the subject line.Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Elijah Walker(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Just as we were publishing, news broke that Jeff Bezos, the Amazon founder, accused the National Enquirer’s owner of trying to use “extortion and blackmail” against him. Here’s what else happened today.1. The latest in Virginia’s evolving political crisis: A powerful Republican, Thomas Norment, was the managing editor of a 1968 Virginia Military Institute yearbook that included photographs of students in blackface and slurs against African-Americans, Asians and Jews.Mr. Noment condemned the use of blackface in a statement.Three of the state’s top Democrats are also under fire. Gov. Ralph Northam admitted to wearing blackface in 1984; Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax, pictured above today, has been accused of sexual assault; and Attorney General Mark Herring admitted wearing blackface in 1980. All three have fended off any signal that they would resign.Other state lawmakers are answering questions about whether they have so-far-undisclosed misconduct. “I have never been in blackface, unequivocal,” said Kirk Cox, the Republican speaker of the House of Delegates and the next in line to the governorship after Mr. Herring._____2. The Trump administration is a step closer to getting an attorney general.The Senate Judiciary Committee voted along party lines to advance Mr. Trump’s nominee, William Barr, above. Next stop: the full Republican-controlled Senate. He could be sworn into office as soon as next week.Meanwhile, the acting attorney general, Matthew Whitaker, deepened tensions with House Democrats, insisting that he wouldn’t appear before the House Judiciary Committee as scheduled on Friday unless the panel pledged not to use subpoena power during the session to force him to answer questions._____3. House Democrats introduced an extraordinarily ambitious resolution to fulfill their “Green New Deal” pledges. It calls for the U.S. to pump no additional carbon into the atmosphere by 2030 while creating jobs and health care for millions.It was drafted by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York and Senator Edward Markey of Massachusetts, above.But the legislative prospects for the measure are bleak in the foreseeable future. Speaker Nancy Pelosi would have to bring it to the floor for a vote, but she has no plans to do so. Her wariness stems, at least in part, from a decade ago, when she watched the Senate bury the last major climate change measure._____4. The 2008 financial crisis put a chill on big bank deals. That ended Thursday.BB&T said it planned to buy SunTrust Banks for about $28 billion. If approved, it would be the first big bank merger since the crisis and create the sixth-biggest bank in the United States. But analysts will be watching to see if regulators are hesitant to allow such mergers to resume. Above, BB&T headquarters in Winston Salem, N.C.Separately, Germany said that Facebook could no longer to combine users’ Facebook information with data about their activities on other sites without getting explicit permission, a decision that could have wide-ranging implications on the company’s ability to target advertising._____5. Countdown: 50 days to Brexit. The U.K. still doesn’t have a final plan.Prime Minister Theresa May headed to Brussels to try to reopen the 585-page withdrawal agreement with the European Union, which lays out a managed exit on March 29. But those talks were predictably inconclusive. However, the president of the European Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, above with Mrs. May, agreed to meet again by the end of the month.If no agreement is reached by the March deadline, Britain will crash out of the E.U., which experts have said would have dire consequences not just for its own economy but also other members of the bloc._____6. Speedskating on natural ice is a beloved Dutch national pastime. Unfortunately, that tradition can no longer be enjoyed in the Netherlands.Climate change means the winters are too warm for waterways to freeze consistently. The Elfstedentocht, a one-day, long-distance speedskating tour through 11 cities, was held in some form since the late 1700s, but was last skated on Dutch ice in 1997.Now, close to 6,000 Netherlanders travel to Austria for the event, the climate migrants of the sports world._____7. In one of our most read stories of the day, a contributing Opinion writer takes an unusual stance on helicopter parenting: It works.Pamela Druckerman, an American journalist who lives in Paris, cites research by an economist at Yale and another at Northwestern collected in a new book, “Love, Money and Parenting: How Economics Explains the Way We Raise Our Kids.” They found that an “intensive parenting style” correlated with higher test scores, and kids less likely to use drugs, smoke or abuse alcohol, and more likely to delay sex.“It’s true that high-octane, hardworking child-rearing has some pointless excesses, and it doesn’t spark joy for parents,” Ms. Druckerman writes. “But done right, it works for kids, not just in the United States but in rich countries around the world.”_____8. Erykah Badu emerged from the 1990s R&B scene as a heroine by insisting on her self-worth, selling millions of albums and easily passing from one era of pop music to the next.She’s also pursued enlightenment, advocating a fundamentalist kind of unconditional love (including for Adolf Hitler) that has drawn forceful criticism. “It’s O.K. to disagree with me, no problem, but you cannot censor how I feel,” she said in a Times interview.She also talked about her popularization of the expression “stay woke” and her new film, “What Men Want,” coming out Friday. It’s a gender-flipped remake of the 2000 Mel Gibson-Helen Hunt romantic comedy; our writer says her comic timing is “otherworldly.”_____9. Can’t judge a book by its cover? Not so fast.We asked designers how they get a concept from good to must-pick-up. “Sometimes it can be a painful process, but in the end when it turns out like this, it’s really gratifying,” said the designer of the highly esteemed cover for “I Will Be Complete,” Glen David Gold’s nearly 500-page memoir. His final design is seen above, center.There can also be more to the author than meets the eye. From “Frog and Toad” to “Where the Wild Things Are,” some enduring 20th-century children’s titles share a secret language of queer compassion. Our co-chief theater critic, Jesse Green, looks at the books he and his partner used to read to his sons.And another reviewer finds an “exquisitely moving portrait of the daily stuff of life” in Julie Yip-Williams’s memoir, “The Unwinding of the Miracle,” written before she died last year at the age of 42._____10. Lastly, we say goodbye to a barrier-breaking baseball player.Frank Robinson, a Hall of Fame slugger who hit 586 home runs over 21 seasons and became Major League Baseball’s first black manager, died at 83. He remains the lone player to be named M.V.P. in both the National and American leagues.In his memoir, he recalled receiving a standing ovation when he appeared at the helm of the Cleveland Indians at their season opener in 1975.“One hundred thousand fans could not have been louder,” he wrote. “After all the years of waiting to become a big league manager — ignored because so many team owners felt that fans would not accept a black manager — I was on the job and people were loudly pleased.”Have a good night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Monday. The first official day of spring is two days away.Weather: A slight chance of flurries early in the morning, but turning sunny and rising to the mid-40s.Alternate-side parking: In effect until Wednesday (suspended Thursday for Purim).It’s one of the biggest real estate projects in the country in recent years, and one of the biggest in New York since Rockefeller Center was completed 80 years ago.And taxpayers helped pay for this new $25 billion neighborhood.Hudson Yards officially opened on Friday. Want to visit? Here’s everything you’ll need to know:Where is it?Hudson Yards was built above the Metropolitan Transportation Authority rail yards on the West Side of Manhattan.What buildings are there?There’s a shopping mall between two office towers, 10 and 30 Hudson Yards. 50 Hudson Yards is to the north and under construction. Another office building is at 55 Hudson Yards.Then there’s 35 Hudson Yards, which is 1,000 feet high and includes shops, offices, a hotel and apartments. And over at 15 Hudson Yards, a residential building, there are separate entrances for the wealthy condo owners and the subsidized renters.The most eye-catching buildings are the Shed, a $500 million city-sponsored arts center, and the Vessel, a 150-foot-high, $200 million structure with 2,500 climbable steps.There’s also a major dining complex, with restaurants run by celebrity chefs like Thomas Keller, David Chang, Michael Lomonaco, Costas Spiliadis and José Andrés.Half a dozen buildings are slated for construction west of 12th Avenue.Who built all of this? Mainly Stephen Ross, a billionaire developer who will move into a penthouse at Hudson Yards.How much did it cost?The tax breaks and other government assistance for Hudson Yards have reached nearly $6 billion, according to public records and an analysis by the New School, my colleague Matthew Haag reported.That number is bigger than the $3 billion in tax breaks and incentives that were part of the failed attempt to entice Amazon to open a campus in Queens.The Hudson Yards package included:• $2.4 billion to extend the No. 7 subway line• $1.2 billion for about four acres of parks and open space• $359 million in interest payments on bonds when revenue from the development fell shortSome companies in New York City that planned to relocate to Hudson Yards were eligible for tax breaks:• $25 million for BlackRock• $5.5 million for L’Oréal USA• $14 million for WarnerMediaSupporters of the project point out that the subway line and the park space benefit not only Hudson Yards, but also the neighborhood in general.[Read about the tax breaks and incentives behind Hudson Yards.]Is Hudson Yards any good, architecturally speaking?The Times’s architecture critic, Michael Kimmelman, called the development a “relic of dated 2000s thinking, nearly devoid of urban design,” and akin to “glass shards on top of a wall.”“Hudson Yards glorifies a kind of surface spectacle — as if the peak ambitions of city life were consuming luxury goods and enjoying a smooth, seductive, mindless materialism,” he said.The open space, he continued, “looks like it may end up being mostly a fancy drive-through drop-off for the shopping mall, a landscaped plaza overshadowed by office towers.”[Read Mr. Kimmelman’s review.]What does Mr. Ross, the Hudson Yards developer, say about the project?Mr. Kimmelman asked, half-jokingly, “Do you imagine this as a museum of architecture?”“Yes, that’s exactly what we’re doing,” Mr. Ross said. “We are creating a museum of architecture and a whole new way of life.”He added, “This is New York as it should be, with everything you want at your doorstep.”The debate between housing and gardens is a no-brainer, says the columnist Ginia Bellafante.#Maga Church: A doomsday prophet says the Bible predicted President Trump.Welcome, refugees. Now pay back your travel loans.A dominatrix moved into Bedford-Stuyvesant, setting off a gentrification struggle.The police have charged a Staten Island man  with the murder of the reputed mob boss Francesco Cali, and officials say the killing might not be related to organized crime.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.The air quality in certain parts of the Bronx is dangerously unhealthy, according to a college student’s research. [amNew York]Poorer residents in Brooklyn get stuck with older M.T.A. buses. [Daily News]Why doesn’t New York State have license plates that honor the memory of Sept. 11? [New York Post]Why the developer Stephen Ross may be “the most powerful man in New York, a Robert Moses for our age of concierge mega-urbanism.” [New York magazine]Mayor de Blasio implied that an affair by Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive, played a role in the company’s decision to cancel plans to build a major campus in Long Island City. [Politico NY]Practice Chinese calligraphy at Chatham Square Library in Manhattan. 1 p.m. [Free]Join the author Jennifer Weiss-Wolf and others at the Brooklyn Historical Society to discuss menstrual equity. 6:30 p.m. [$5]Make your way to the Comedy Carnival at Muchmore’s in Brooklyn for popcorn, cotton candy and Purim-themed fun. 9 p.m. [$5]— Derek NormanEvents are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Many people rang in the new year in January.The Chinese New Year was in February.The Persian New Year is celebrated Thursday. It is called Nowruz and coincides with spring, which begins on Wednesday.Iranian holidays can be particularly difficult to celebrate in this country, as one Times op-ed contributor wrote last year: “While Chinese-Americans had Bruce Lee and Italian-Americans had Rocky Balboa, I had Ayatollah Khomeini and the hostage crisis.”Awkward.(Non-Iranians sometimes celebrate Nowruz, too, including former Mayor Michael Bloomberg.)On Friday, I spoke with Dr. Rosa Nouvini, who, like me, was born and raised in New York and is of Persian descent. She has been celebrating Persian holidays all her life and is steeped in the traditions.Compared with New Year’s Eve, “Nowruz has a deeper meaning for me,” Dr. Nouvini said. “It’s more togetherness, about roots.” She grew up on Long Island, recalling that her mother “would start spring cleaning a couple of weeks before” the occasion.The cleaning isn’t just symbolic: Nowruz is often celebrated by visiting family members at their homes.How can you set up a Nowruz get-together at your house?First, offer food. (New York Times Cooking has 22 easy-to-make recipes for the Persian New Year.)Second, put together a haft sin table, which contains seven items representing the things you’re grateful for and would like to see more of in the new year:• An apple, for beauty• Garlic, for good health• Vinegar, for patience• Hyacinth, for spring• Sweet pudding, for fertility• Sprouts, for rebirth• Coins, for prosperityThe tables in my family also have mirrors, representing a look into the future, and goldfish (real, or the snack), representing life.Or include something else to nibble on. All that cleaning can make a person hungry.It’s Monday — get your haft sin table ready.Dear Diary:We were apart for seven months. He was in Alabama, at Fort Rucker, and I was at Columbia. We spent three days together while he was on leave.The day before he left, we were on the No. 1. In the twitching subway light, a band swung into our car and seasoned the tight air: One musician kneaded a metallic accordion, and another sang.He smiled — there is a slight gap between his front teeth — and we danced. In the music, the moment felt infinite. I didn’t think about saying goodbye, about the distance from Alabama to New York. I just thought about him, on the No. 1, with me, swinging to the music.The next day he boarded his train at Penn Station. I walked to Times Square, crying and cold, and I caught the No. 1. After two stops, a band swung into the car: It was the one from the day before. I couldn’t help but smile and swing my hips to the music.— Emma O’LearyNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Trade talks between midlevel American and Chinese officials, extended from a planned two days to three, ended yesterday in Beijing after negotiators made progress but released few details.What happened: According to U.S. officials, negotiators discussed intellectual property protections, so-called forced tech transfer and China’s promise to buy “substantial” amounts of American agricultural, energy and manufacturing products. China’s commerce ministry spoke of “extensive, in-depth and meticulous exchanges.” Wang Qishan, China’s vice president, said today that the two countries “must adapt to the new reality, keep looking for and expanding our common interests, deepening and promoting practical cooperation.”What’s next: No date or location is set for the next round of talks. Higher-level discussions could occur in Davos, Switzerland, if President Trump attends the World Economic Forum meeting there, starting Jan. 22. But he may cancel if the partial government shutdown is not resolved by then. China’s economic czar is expected to visit Washington sometime after that. The Trump administration has set a March 2 deadline to wrap up negotiations, after which it says it could raise tariffs.What’s at stake: If China and the U.S. let tensions escalate and investors pull back, “you’re looking at enough of a tightening in financial conditions to say that a global recession is a real risk,” Peter Hooper, a former Federal Reserve official and Deutsche Bank’s chief economist, told Bloomberg.President Trump wants to calm volatile financial markets. And China’s leader, Xi Jinping, needs to perk up a slowing economy. A measure of factory prices in China last month showed the slowest increase since late 2016. Former Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers told Bloomberg Television yesterday that there is “pretty clear evidence that things have slowed down a fair amount in China.”“There are a lot of grounds for concern,” he added.What else: • Auto importers in the Chinese port city of Tianjin are rushing to get American-made cars through customs, taking advantage of a temporary cut in the 40 percent tariff that Beijing imposed on them last July.• Amid suspicion from the F.B.I. and American universities, China is going quiet about its “Thousand Talents Program,” which has attracted thousands of scientists and experts to the country since 2008.• The Hang Seng stock index in Hong Kong recorded its best day in more than a month yesterday and closed on its fifth straight rally today. U.S. equities also rose, though not as much as in recent days.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Welcome to Day 20 of the shutdown, which could become the longest in history on Saturday. Yesterday, President Trump stormed out of a meeting with congressional leaders, throwing what Democrats described as a “temper tantrum” over his demand to fund a border wall, a key sticking point in talks to reopen the government. On Twitter, he called the session “a total waste of time.” The NYT writes:The contentious, brief and futile session underscored an impasse that is looking each day like an insurmountable gulf between the two sides.Today, President Trump will visit the border in McAllen, Tex. Yesterday, he reiterated a threat to invoke emergency powers to fund his wall without congressional approval. That, writes Charlie Savage in the NYT, “would be an extraordinary violation of constitutional norms — and establish a precedent for presidents who fail to win approval for funding a policy goal.”Some consequences of the stalemate:• In Washington, one of the richest areas in the country, it’s affecting retailers, tourist centers, salons, garbage bins and more.• Nationwide, restaurants struggling with a severe worker shortage said they will continue hiring even though they can no longer check recruits’ immigration status online.• Coast Guard employees received a five-page tip sheet suggesting that they could stay afloat without their paychecks through garage sales, babysitting, dog-walking, serving as “mystery shoppers” or, as a last resort, declaring bankruptcy.• This was expected to be a banner year for I.P.O.s. But with work halted at regulators, it could be only the fourth year since 1995 when no major company goes public in January. Other deals, including CVS’s purchase of Aetna, could also be delayed.Two Federal Reserve officials said yesterday that the central bank should assess economic conditions before it considers raising rates again. And they did so as the Fed released the minutes of its December meeting, showing that it reached the same conclusion.The takeaway: Central bank officials are now not likely to raise the benchmark interest rate at their January meeting nor at one in mid-March, writes the NYT’s Binyamin Appelbaum. But they still expect strong enough economic growth to justify increases this year.The reaction: Jerome Powell, the Fed chairman, was criticized for not saying more to soothe investors in December. “He could have handled that differently, and better,” one economist said. The dollar fell to a three-month low against the euro after the meeting minutes were released.The next step: The Fed is considering options to keep interest rates in its target range. One approach would be to slow the decline of bank reserves in the system.Theresa May, Britain’s prime minister, is getting backed into a corner over Brexit — and she knows it.Her plans for how Britain’s departure from the European Union will play out are strongly expected to be rejected by Parliament in a vote next week — two and a half years after Britons voted to leave the bloc in a referendum, and a month after this vote was first scheduled.Yesterday, lawmakers moved to block Mrs. May from stalling further. They have also passed a measure aimed at making it harder for the government to exit the E.U. without a deal.The withdrawal is scheduled for March 29. Many are concerned that, without an agreement with Brussels in place, economic chaos could ensue. Japan’s prime minister, Shinzo Abe, meets with Mrs. May today, and automakers such as Honda, Nissan and Toyota, which manufacture in Britain for export into continental Europe, are pushing him to press the case against a no-deal Brexit.Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, pushed for fresh elections if Parliament turns down Mrs. May’s plan. The British public is still deeply conflicted over the E.U., as shown in these charts from Bloomberg.President Moon Jae-in of South Korea has embraced a pro-labor program of higher wages and taxes, but the early results have been discouraging, writes the NYT’s Michael Schuman.Growth has slowed, unemployment has risen and small-business owners are complaining. The troubles suggest South Korea’s limits in solving economic problems, especially without addressing underlying structural issues. Rapid changes like Mr. Moon’s can also have unintended consequences. The biggest is the strain on small businesses, which are often unable to pass on higher costs to their customers.U.S.-North Korea talks:  A second summit meeting between the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un, and President Trump to negotiate the terms of denuclearizing the North is “close,” Mr. Moon said today after Mr. Kim’s visit to China this week. He added that North Korea should take more concrete steps to secure U.S. concessions.Fiat Chrysler Automobiles will pay nearly $650 million to settle lawsuits over illegal software that allowed diesel vehicles to thwart emissions tests and release higher levels of pollutants, according to the NYT.The settlement, which is expected to be announced today, does not include an admission of guilt by the company or a declaration of wrongdoing by the Environmental Protection Agency. Earlier, the agency found that Fiat used technology that could turn off pollution controls under certain driving conditions.The Justice Department sued Fiat over the issue in 2017. The company will recall 104,000 diesel-powered Ram 1500 trucks and Jeep Grand Cherokee sport utility vehicles to install new software.Other auto news: • Tesla’s chief, Elon Musk, wrote on Twitter yesterday that it will stop selling the cheapest versions of its Model S sedan and Model X sport utility vehicle from Monday, and suggested that the upcoming Roadster sports car might be able to levitate.• Rolls-Royce had record sales last year, as wealthy buyers spent some of their gains from the Trump administration’s tax cuts.• Toyota is recalling 1.7 million vehicles in North America, 1.3 million in the U.S., to replace potentially lethal Takata front passenger airbag inflaters.• The Pixar co-founder John Lasseter, who resigned from Disney in June after complaints about unwanted touching, will build an animation production company affiliated with Paramount. (NYT)• Larry Fink, chief executive of the asset manager BlackRock, promoted Mark Wiedman to a new international role that positions him as a likely heir. (FT)• Greg Palm is retiring as Goldman Sachs’s co-general counsel after more than 20 years there. (Bloomberg)• Michael Bright, a top official at the government-owned mortgage guarantor Ginnie Mae, is said to be stepping down to join a trade group. (Bloomberg)• Gordon Brown, the former British prime minister, will advise the Partners Group, a private equity firm in Switzerland, on so-called impact investments. (WSJ)Deals• Edward Lampert, the hedge fund founder and chairman of Sears, has submitted a revised bid of roughly $5 billion in an effort to save the retailer from liquidation. (CNBC)Tech• Check out A.I. assistants, 5G wireless and other trends in a visual tour of the CES electronics trade show. (NYT)• Also at CES, a battle between two vegan burger start-ups. (FT)• Liverpool John Lennon Airport is testing anti-drone equipment after shutdowns at Heathrow and Gatwick. (FT)• Oracle has paid more than $200 million for naming rights to the San Francisco Giants’ stadium. (Bloomberg)• China’s top media regulator omitted Tencent from its list of approved video game titles. (FT)Politics and policy • Rod Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, is expected to leave the Justice Department once an attorney general is confirmed. (NYT)• House Democrats have summoned Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to explain his plan to end sanctions on companies controlled by Oleg Deripaska, a Kremlin ally. (NYT)• Prime Minister Edouard Philippe of France promised to forge ahead with an economic overhaul, despite “yellow jackets” protests. (FT)• The billionaire environmentalist Tom Steyer said he would not run for president in 2020, but would spend at least $40 million this year to promote impeaching President Trump. (WSJ)Best of the rest • Ford said today that it would cut thousands of jobs, exit unprofitable markets and discontinue loss-making vehicle lines as part of a turnaround effort in Europe. (Reuters)• The U.S. food company Mondelez sued its insurance company for refusing to pay a $100 million claim for damage caused by a cyber attack, the first legal dispute of this kind on that scale. (FT)• The Chrysler Building in New York is for sale. The current owners are an Abu Dhabi government fund and Tishman Speyer, a local developer. (WSJ)• Trend-following algorithms, an increasingly important market force, have turned bearish. (WSJ)• MacKenzie Bezos and the Amazon founder Jeff Bezos are divorcing. The split could make her the richest woman in the world, surpassing Francoise Bettencourt Meyers, from the family that founded L’Oreal cosmetics. (Bloomberg)• Ice Cube, the rapper, actor and entrepreneur, wants Viacom’s backing to bid for Fox’s 22 regional sports networks. (Fox)• Why do so many of Eastern Europe’s central bankers face criminal investigations? (Bloomberg)• Avocado demand and prices appear to be in retreat. (WSJ)• Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest oil producer, is likely to issue its first international bond to help finance its potentially $70 billion purchase of the petrochemical giant Sabic. That means disclosing accounts and operational details. (Bloomberg)• An Australian government review recommended closing underperforming funds in the country’s $2 trillion pension system, and letting new employees choose among top performers. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Friday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" Bruce Friedrich spent decades trying to persuade people to stop eating meat. When that didn’t work, he turned his focus to creating better alternatives.Bruce Friedrich, founder of the Good Food Institute, spent years as an activist trying to persuade people to stop eating meat. Now he’s trying to help companies create alternatives to animal protein.CreditCreditGabriella Demczuk for The New York TimesSupported byBy Nathaniel PopperSAN FRANCISCO — Bruce Friedrich used to be the guy who broke into fashion shows to splatter fake blood on the models wearing fur coats. That was when he wasn’t handing out pamphlets on campuses or creating videos to expose the grisly reality of meat production.But he realized at a certain point that his activism wasn’t achieving his goal — getting fewer people to kill, eat and wear animals.“We’ve tried to convince the world to go vegan, and it has not worked,” Mr. Friedrich said in a recent interview.These days, he is hoping capitalism might work where activism and persuasion fell short.The organization Mr. Friedrich founded in 2015, the Good Food Institute, is at the center of a new industry searching for alternatives to meat that make no sacrifices on taste or price. His organization, which is based in Washington, does everything from starting venture capital funds to making matches between investors and start-ups.The work has turned Mr. Friedrich, 49, into a spokesman of sorts for people who came to realize that making others feel bad about eating meat does not make them consume less of it.“You can turn blue in the face talking to people about how animals suffer,” said Suzy Welch, an animal activist and an author. “Then Bruce came and said, ‘There might be this alternative.’”Ms. Welch and her husband, Jack Welch, the former chief executive of General Electric, met Mr. Friedrich in 2015. Since then, the couple have become funders of the Good Food Institute, and they have relied on it to vet the half-dozen or so companies they have put money into.There are early signs that Mr. Friedrich’s strategy is making headway. Companies like Impossible Foods and Beyond Meat are becoming brand names. Sales of meat alternatives rose 22 percent last year, and 18 percent the year before, according to Euromonitor International.But it is also making Mr. Friedrich’s organization into a punching bag. The Good Food Institute has faced off against cattle ranchers, who have been promoting state-level legislation that would make it harder for start-ups to market their alternative proteins to meat eaters.When Mr. Friedrich wrote an essay for The Wall Street Journal, praising the food conglomerate Tyson for its embrace of plant-based proteins, he was denounced by meat lovers for peddling “self-righteous claptrap” and was hit by vegans for promoting processed foods from a company that still kills animals.“Don’t congratulate them!” one commenter chastised Mr. Friedrich. Now he spends more time thinking about the comments from meat eaters than about his longtime allies, the vegans.“I don’t care much if vegetarians or vegans are supportive,” he said. “We don’t want people to think differently about their food. We want to change the food.”Mr. Friedrich was raised in Norman, Okla., where his father was a university professor. He didn’t have much interaction with animals or agriculture, other than the occasional fishing trip with his grandfathers, which he looks back on with some regret.He was an activist from a young age, but his issue of choice was initially poverty. At Grinnell College, in Iowa, he ran the local branch of an organization focused on global poverty. After graduating, he moved to Washington, D.C., and spent six years living in and running the Catholic Worker homeless shelter, where he took a salary of $5 a week and wore the donated clothes other residents didn’t want.While today he is trim and clean shaven, back then he had the hippie Jesus look — long hair and a bushy beard.Mr. Friedrich grew up Lutheran and converted to Catholicism while living in the shelter, and his activism was partly a result of his faith. Unlike some activists, he said, he is not motivated by any sentimental or emotional attachment to other creatures.He became a vegan after reading the book “Diet for a Small Planet,” and he decided to dedicate his life to the cause while he was living in the shelter and read the book “Christianity and the Right of Animals.”“I didn’t have a particular affinity for animals,” he said. “I have a very German, logic-based temperament, for better and worse.”Mr. Friedrich got a job at People for the Ethical Treatment for Animals, and married another leader in the organization. They had one son, who is now grown up.During his nearly 15 years at PETA, he rose to be the head of public campaigns. He was responsible for some of the organization’s highest-profile campaigns, including Kentucky Fried Cruelty, Wicked Wendy’s and Murder King, which put a spotlight on the treatment of animals served by fast food chains.Mr. Friedrich was often on the front lines. He was arrested for the fake blood incidents at Fashion Week. He also stripped down and streaked in front of Buckingham Palace, with the website GoVeg.Com painted on his body, just before President George W. Bush arrived.But the provocateur was not dogmatic. Mr. Friedrich’s colleagues said he was willing to throw his old ideas and strategies overboard, even when it meant teaming up with former opponents.During the so-called McCruelty campaign, Mr. Friedrich went from demonstrating outside McDonald’s restaurants (with fake Unhappy Meals, filled with bloodied plastic chickens) to negotiating with the company and praising it when it improved the living conditions of its egg-laying hens.“He always had this ability to see potential friends and allies where others would only see enemies,” said Milo Runkle, who began as a volunteer at PETA under Mr. Friedrich and went on to found Mercy for Animals.Mr. Friedrich always thought the battle would be won by persuading people to stop eating meat. Many of the videos and documentaries he made were focused on winning over consumers, like the short documentary “Meet Your Meat,” narrated by Alec Baldwin.“I really thought we just needed to educate people about the fact that there is no moral difference between eating a pet and eating a farm animal,” he said. “For quite a while, I was talking about the inevitability of our victory, purely through education.”But the per capita consumption of meat in the United States kept going up. In faster-growing parts of the world like China and Brazil, the increase was even steeper.Mr. Friedrich took a break from PETA in 2009 and spent two years teaching English and civics at a high school in Baltimore.Those years coincided with the creation of start-ups looking to take on the meat industry. Beyond Meat was founded in 2009, and Impossible Foods began in 2011. There had been veggie burgers before, but the new companies focused on creating products that would taste enough like meat to appeal to carnivores.Almost all of the founders of these companies talk — like Mr. Friedrich — about coming to the business after realizing that the existing efforts to move people away from animal-based agriculture were not working.Pat Brown, the founder of Impossible Foods and a former professor at Stanford University, decided to form his company after organizing a conference about the problems created by animal agriculture and realizing how little impact the conference had.“All the education and all the awareness of the problem, and concern about the problem, doesn’t solve the problem” he said. “We just need to deliver the same value to consumers but use better technology to produce it.”Mr. Friedrich considered founding his own food start-up. But he decided he could make more of a difference by creating a nonprofit to provide a set of shared resources for all the companies in the industry.The Good Food Institute, which Mr. Friedrich founded with $540,000 from Mercy for Animals, has 65 employees and separate departments for lobbying, scientific research and corporate engagement.So far, plant-based meat companies have had the most success, but the Good Food Institute is also putting significant resources into helping companies that want to grow meat cells in labs.The idea is to create as many alternatives to meat as is possible, and Mr. Friedrich is using every tool at his disposal, from incubating new companies to starting venture capital funds, two of which have been spun out of the Good Food Institute.One of the grand pooh-bahs of Silicon Valley, Paul Graham, who founded Y Combinator, recently wrote on Twitter that he believed the start-ups would lead “a rapid switch away from meat at some point.”But Mr. Graham said he anticipated that one side effect would be a big hit to family farms, and more economic inequality.“The replacements for meat will be created by start-ups, which means more Bezoses,” he said, referring to Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos.Mr. Friedrich disagrees. He believes a move toward a more plant-based diet would help smaller farms at the expense of big meat conglomerates. But the shift “has to happen,” he said.“We need to change the meat, because we aren’t going to change human nature,” he said.Follow Nathaniel Popper on Twitter: @nathanielpoppper.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAlmost everyone had an opinion on the company’s reversal on a second headquarters in Queens.By Vivian Wang[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]The news on Thursday that Amazon had decided not to build a second headquarters in New York City was an equal-opportunity stunner, to the politicians and activists who had fought against it, and to the business leaders and elected officials who had eagerly awaited it.Within minutes of the company’s announcement, reactions spilled out on social media and in the streets of Long Island City, Queens, the site of the now-abandoned plans for expansion. The company released a long statement on its blog at noon, a few minutes after The New York Times broke the story.“After much thought and deliberation, we’ve decided not to move forward with our plans to build a headquarters for Amazon in Long Island City, Queens,” the statement said. “For Amazon, the commitment to build a new headquarters requires positive, collaborative relationships with state and local elected officials who will be supportive over the long-term.”It continued: “A number of state and local politicians have made it clear that they oppose our presence and will not work with us to build the type of relationships that are required to go forward with the project we and many others envisioned.”Read the full statement. Mr. de Blasio and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo were the deal’s strongest proponents, having negotiated it together and presented it as a major triumph. For opponents of the plan, the mayor’s efforts suggested that he was not the progressive he had always claimed to be. His statement seemed aimed at walking back his support.“We gave Amazon the opportunity to be a good neighbor and do business in the greatest city in the world. Instead of working with the community, Amazon threw away that opportunity,” Mr. de Blasio said in a statement.“If Amazon can’t recognize what that’s worth, its competitors will.”Mr. Cuomo had spent much of the previous week attacking State Senate Democrats for their opposition to the deal, even though the ruling conference was not unanimous in its stance. On Thursday, he doubled down on that blame. “A small group politicians put their own narrow political interests above their community — which poll after poll showed overwhelmingly supported bringing Amazon to Long Island City — the state’s economic future and the best interests of the people of this state,” he said in a statement. “The New York State Senate has done tremendous damage. They should be held accountable for this lost economic opportunity.”Mr. Gianaris, of Queens, was one of the loudest opponents of the deal, which would have brought Amazon to his district. Earlier this month, Andrea Stewart-Cousins, the leader of the Senate Democratic majority, recommended Mr. Gianaris to sit on a little-known state board that could have granted him veto power over the plan. Mr. Gianaris was triumphant on Thursday. He cited Amazon’s statement that it would still expand in Manhattan, Brooklyn and Staten Island.“Even by their own words, Amazon admits they will grow their presence in New York without their promised subsidies,” he said in an interview. “So, what was all this really about?”Ms. Stewart-Cousins said Amazon officials told her that her recommendation of Mr. Gianaris was not the tipping point in their decision. She criticized the secret negotiations that had created the deal to begin with.“In speaking to Amazon, they don’t lay the blame on any single entity. They realize that there was political opposition on every front,” she said in an interview. “And that is because this is a flawed process. The process should not get two years down the road, practically, before you actually bring in the community.”Mr. Johnson had applauded Mr. Gianaris’s efforts to block Amazon, and he affirmed his criticisms of the company on Thursday.“I hope this is the start of a conversation about vulture capitalism and where our tax dollars are best spent,” he said in a statement.Opponents to the deal constantly pointed to Amazon’s anti-union reputation. Amazon officials said at a recent hearing that they would not remain neutral if their employees tried to unionize. But the city’s unions were divided on the deal, and their reaction to its collapse was equally split.The Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union, which had vehemently opposed the deal — Amazon presents a direct threat to retail workers — said the company had taken an unacceptable, uncompromising approach.“Rather than addressing the legitimate concerns that have been raised by many New Yorkers, Amazon says you do it our way or not at all, we will not even consider the concerns of New Yorkers,” Chelsea Connor, a spokeswoman for the union, said.But Hector Figueroa, the president of the 32BJ Service Employees International Union, called the deal’s demise “a lost opportunity” for labor to “actually organize and improve working conditions at Amazon.” Mr. Figueroa’s union represents workers, including office cleaners and security officers, who would have benefited from the influx of jobs.Ms. Ocasio-Cortez, the superstar first-year congresswoman who represents parts of the Bronx and Queens, was one of the first politicians to attack the deal.”Anything is possible,” she wrote on Twitter on Thursday. “Today was the day a group of dedicated, everyday New Yorkers & their neighbors defeated Amazon’s corporate greed, its worker exploitation, and the power of the richest man in the world.”Ms. Cerbone strongly supported having Amazon come to the neighborhood.“I’m really upset, because I don’t think they realized what they did,” she said of the politicians who opposed the deal. “And they’re proud of it? They think they did something lovely? They wanted the political gain, they should have done it in a different way. They get put into office for us, not to work for themselves.”Referring to a local public housing complex, she said: “I know people who live in Queensbridge. I know the people who actually needed these jobs. And I know the businesses who are going to suffer because of this.”Kathryn Wylde, the head of the Partnership for New York City, a powerful business association, said the city should have seen the company’s exit coming.“How can anyone be surprised?” she said. “We competed successfully, made a deal and spent the last three months trashing our new partner.”The reception Amazon received, she added, sent a “pretty bad message to the job creators of the city and the world.”Thomas J. Grech, the president of the Queens Chamber of Commerce, said that no words could convey “the sadness and dismay at the loss of this historic opportunity.”He added: “An entire generation will look back at the these last few months and ask us why. I hope those that opposed this Amazon deal have the answers to what we lost today.”Julie Samuels, the executive director of Tech:NYC, a coalition of technology companies that includes Facebook and Google, said Amazon’s decision could hurt New York’s ability to attract talent in the field.“New York City is today one of the most dynamic tech hubs in the world, but there is no guarantee we will maintain this status in the future,” she said in a statement.Ms. Warren, a presidential candidate from Massachusetts who has made fighting income inequality and corporate influence a central plank of her campaign, wrote on Twitter that giant corporations were holding democracy “hostage.”“Amazon — one of the wealthiest companies on the planet — just walked away from billions in taxpayer bribes, all because some elected officials in New York aren’t sucking up to them enough,” she said.Grass-roots groups had rallied against the deal since it was announced. They spent last weekend canvassing to build opposition.New York City’s chapter of the Democratic Socialists of America said its members had been part of an “unprecedented mobilization” against a company that wanted to “crack down on unions and workers’ rights, increase deportations of our immigrant neighbors, and fuel gentrification and rising rents.”Make the Road New York, an immigrants’ rights group, said the decision was proof that “people power wins, even against the world’s richest man,” referring to Amazon’s chief executive, Jeff Bezos.CAAAV Organizing Asian Communities was blunt about the Valentine’s Day breakup.“It’s not us, Amazon,” the group wrote on Twitter. “It’s you.”Patrick McGeehan, Willie Neuman, Corey Kilgannon and Jesse McKinley contributed reporting.Vivian Wang is a reporter for the Metro Desk, covering New York State politics in Albany. She was raised in Chicago and graduated from Yale University.  @vwang3 Advertisement"
" 
APRIL 10, 2019

Paul Rudnick’s original play “Presidential,” written for T’s Culture issue.
By Paul Rudnick  APRIL 10, 2019A Georgetown family room, 2023.IVANKA     We need to talk, please put that thing down.JARED     But it’s so cool, see, the hologram of Aquaman appears before the United Nations Security Council and thanks me for ending all wars everywhere.IVANKA     It’s a video game.JARED     Then Thor says that I saved his home planet of Asgard …IVANKA     We need to decide which one of us should be the next president. I’ve done a PowerPoint thing, listing our individual strengths. I’m smart, beautiful, gracious and everyone in China thinks I’m an enchanted princess. On your side, while you’re underweight and unfocused, you always remember to look at me like I might be a mermaid. And we both have wonderfully high-pitched, featherlight speaking voices.JARED     I always try to imagine that I’m whispering a poem to my favorite stuffed animal on a rainy day.IVANKA     I would ask my dad what we should do, but the warden confiscated his phone again because he won’t stop tweeting about how he’s in the biggest prison ever, reserved for only the most important criminals. Only he keeps misspelling Sing Sing. The first time he called it Sing Song, then Ring Ring, and now it’s Sing-a-Lago.JARED     Before we decide anything, we should ask our kids if they’re O.K. with the whole deal.IVANKA     They’re so adorable. This morning they marched into my dressing room while my assistants were buttoning me up and pretending to be bluebirds. Then the kids presented me with a notarized document saying that while it’s no reflection on us, they want to make their own way in the world and be judged on their own merits, so they’re all changing their last name.JARED     That’s so cute! To what?IVANKA     “Clinton.”JARED     But if I become president, I can finally reveal my plan for feeding the hungry, ending climate change and bringing peace to all nations.IVANKA     So how would you do it?JARED     Why do you have to be like that?IVANKA     I’m sorry, I’m so sorry, I didn’t mean to badger you …JARED     How many times do I have to tell you, it’s a SECRET plan!IVANKA     But come on, can’t you give me one tiny little hint?JARED     O.K., one word: golf carts.IVANKA     Whoa.JARED     I know! But if you’re president, what will you do?IVANKA     I’ll keep empowering women everywhere, sometimes by pulling my hair back in a sleek, high ponytail and other times by doing my signature facial expression. Watch, I’m going to do it now. I’m widening my eyes just a bit, I’m tilting my head down and putting my forefinger on my chin, but just gently, so I don’t look smushed in photos. I call this expression Listening and Learning, and it’s copyrighted. O.K., tell me something really important, and I’ll do the face.JARED     Um … Chris Christie has a nuclear weapon in a Styrofoam cooler in the trunk of his Datsun.IVANKA     See, I’m doing the face, so while I look concerned and empathetic, I have no idea what you just said.JARED     That’s awesome!IVANKA     Who would you pick as your running mate?JARED     You. Duh. So I wouldn’t have to remember a new name.IVANKA     But that makes me feel bad, because I wasn’t going to pick you. I would choose Jeanine Pirro because when I stand next to her I seem sane by comparison. Or I might pick Ariana Grande, because young people like her.JARED     Not anymore. Not since she became the governor of Minnesota.IVANKA     Fine, then maybe I’ll just keep Mike Pence.JARED     That’s so mean!IVANKA     I know, he was so heartbroken after my dad, you know, took a break, and even the Republicans said, “Instead of Pence, let’s make Lindsey Graham the new president.”JARED     Poor Lindsey.IVANKA     It’s tragic. There he was, president of the United States, but since for the first time in his life he didn’t have anyone to bad-mouth and then suck up to, he had that complete nervous collapse. The Secret Service found him talking to a velvet-upholstered settee in the Lincoln Bedroom and telling it, “I support you 100 percent, Your Highness.”JARED     And then Mike Pence got his hopes up all over again.IVANKA     Until Congress voted to make that settee president instead.JARED     Which would inspire my campaign slogan: “Vote for Jared — another great piece of furniture.”IVANKA     I love that. My campaign logo would be a photo of me handing a purse from my discontinued fashion collection back to the teenager in Romania who made it.JARED     I’m just going to float this idea: What if we both ran for president?IVANKA     Against each other? But sweetheart, I’d slaughter you in the debates. Even when we watch “Jeopardy!” you always start sobbing and saying, “But doesn’t it count as a question if my voice goes up at the end of the sentence?”JARED     No, I meant, what if we ran as a couple? As co-presidents? With Eric and Donald Jr. as our co-vice-presidents?IVANKA     But Eric and Donald Jr. are still in hiding, ever since they saw that last “Jumanji” sequel in Imax 3-D and decided that the animals were coming after them.JARED     What if Melania is our vice president?IVANKA     But after the divorce, when she married Jeff Bezos, she said that she wanted to stay out of the spotlight. She said that she only wanted to exist as an app where people could admire photos of her and make only positive, life-enhancing comments like, “For the first time I finally understand leather leggings with stretch.”JARED     What about Tiffany?IVANKA     My half sister?JARED     I’ve noticed that you always introduce her that way, by saying, “This is my half sister, Tiffany.” At first I thought that meant her body stopped at the waist.IVANKA     I love my half sister Tiffany. She finished law school and she’s smart and pretty. She’s like if Mike Pence became sentient.JARED     Wait, what does that last word mean? I know, I know, Google it, or ask Giuliani.IVANKA     I love that we named our new hamster Giuliani. Because it was so sad when the real Rudy went on trial in The Hague, after his appearances on Fox News were declared crimes against humanity.JARED     So when we’re co-presidents, because of #MeToo, I’ll just wear my navy blazer and sit quietly and play video games.IVANKA     While I do my Listening and Learning face! I'm working on adding a new feature, where I purse my lips slightly to show reaching out. I’m calling it Listening and Learning and Demonstrating All-Purpose Compassion.JARED     But who do you think the Democrats will run against us?IVANKA     Bernie Sanders looks great with his new hairpiece, which he’s justifying by claiming that under his administration, hairpieces will be available to everyone regardless of gender identity, race or household income. And Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez wants to run, but I can demolish her by going on any Fox News show and asking, “Does America really want a brunette?” I think the only candidate we really have to worry about is Chelsea Clinton.JARED     I would vote for her. I know, I’m sorry, you told me to stop saying that.IVANKA     Chelsea and I used to be friends, and I hate that we’re not anymore. So maybe we could all run a transparent and fair-minded campaign, without partisan rancor or mudslinging. Jared, stop it. We’ve talked about your giggling.JARED     Because it’s not presidential. Like tuneless humming or fidgeting or chasing cars.IVANKA     Thank you. Our only real obstacle to leadership is the notion that we’re completely unqualified and were only given White House jobs because of the worst kind of nepotism.JARED     But how do we fight that?IVANKA     By both of us using this auxiliary blank facial expression and replying, “Those accusations are hurtful,” and then doing a photo op where we hold hands and stride purposefully across a lawn.JARED     But where are we striding to?IVANKA     A bright future. Or brunch.JARED     Can we have pancakes where they use pineapple slices and sprinkles and whipped cream to make a smiley face?IVANKA     You bet. Because we’re going to be president together, only I’ll be a little more president than you. But together we’ll be president of the United States of us!CELIA KEENAN-BOLGER wears a Michael Kors Collection dress, $1,895, saks.com, and her own earrings. GIDEON GLICK wears a J.Crew jacket, $228, pants, $128, and shirt, $70, jcrew.com, and Paul Smith tie, $125, paulsmith.com. Cover photograph by Todd Hido. Styled by Tracey Nicholson. Hair by Marki Shkreli using Marki. Grooming by Yui Ishibashi using MAC Cosmetics. Set design by Colin King. Photographed at United Palace Theater. Digital tech: Michael O’Shea. Photo assistants: Jonathan Bumble and Paul Storey. Hair assistants: Yasu Nakamura, Natasha Taylor and Jenny Wimmerstedt. Makeup assistant: Evyta Soendoro. Stylist’s assistants: Sergio Mejia, Gabe Gutierrez and Susan Walsh. Tailoring: Martin Keen and Angie Bilotti.Paul Rudnick lives in New York City. He is currently working on the Broadway musical version of “The Devil Wears Prada,” with a score by Elton John.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. President Trump plans to declare a national emergency, Amazon nixes a New York headquarters and Britain’s Parliament delivered more Brexit chaos. Here’s the latest: A two-month war of attrition between the president and Congress has effectively ended, but at the possible cost of a new battle. The White House announced that President Trump would sign a border deal passed by the Senate that averts a partial government shutdown, but also that he would declare a national emergency in order to circumvent Congress and unilaterally allocate billions of dollars for his promised border wall. Here’s how a national emergency declaration would work. It could provoke a constitutional clash between the president and Congress over control of the federal purse. Lawmakers would have two avenues of opposition: legislation, which Mr. Trump could veto, and the courts.Legal specialists warned of high long-term costs to American democracy.Other news from Washington: Andrew McCabe, the former deputy F.B.I. director, said the agency was so alarmed by Mr. Trump’s decision to fire the bureau’s director, James Comey, in 2017 that Justice Department officials considered encouraging cabinet members to invoke a constitutional amendment to remove him from office.And the Senate confirmed William Barr as attorney general, despite concerns from Democrats that he might not make public the findings of his department’s Russia investigation.The technology giant announced that it would not “move forward” with plans to build a sprawling corporate campus in Long Island City, Queens, after stiff opposition from some local lawmakers and unions empowered by the rise of Democratic political strength.Amazon had forecast that the campus would have created more than 25,000 jobs.The opposition: A point of contention was the $3 billion package of incentives and subsidies the city and state agreed to — their largest ever, dedicated to one of the world’s richest companies. City officials had also agreed to remake plans for the Queens waterfront and give the company’s chief, Jeff Bezos, access to a helicopter pad.There was also concern over the company’s anti-union practices and the changes its huge presence would bring to Queens. Before Amazon’s announcement, we looked at the resistance.Prime Minister Theresa May’s efforts to salvage her Brexit plan suffered a significant parliamentary defeat. Details: Parliament rejected a motion in support of Mrs. May’s tattered Brexit strategy, which hinges on reopening negotiations with the E.U. The motion was intended to reassure the E.U. that Parliament would back Mrs. May in any negotiations. Instead, lawmakers show that they aren’t rallying around her or any plan. The debate: The motion was defeated because of a widening divide within the Conservative Party over whether Britain should take a “no-deal” Brexit off the table. Hard-line Brexit supporters want to lord the possibility over the E.U. as leverage, and sunk the motion to assert that prerogative. But the Dutch prime minister, Mark Rutte, warned Britain that the balance of power was not in its favor and that it was becoming a “middling economy.” Looking ahead: Several ministers are threatening to resign if Mrs. May hasn’t secured a revised deal with the E.U. by Feb. 27. Some analysts believe the outcome of Brexit will remain unclear until a few days before the March 29 deadline. As the U.S. works with the Taliban on a peace deal to end nearly two decades of war, many young Afghans worry that the basic liberties they have become used to under a civilian government could be at risk.This year, Valentine’s Day turned into a day of protest, with poetry expressing not love but fear. One verse in particular — “I kiss you amid the Taliban” — has become a rallying cry.Background: Last month, the Taliban and U.S. negotiators agreed in principle to a framework for the phased withdrawal of American troops, but the Afghan government has been left out of the process. Women in particular have voiced concerns about their rights.E.U. economy: The German economy did not grow in the year’s final quarter, the government said. The news is partly an effect of President Trump’s trade policies and is a bad sign for Europe, where the middle-class has shrunk in most places since the late-2000s recession.Iran: Vice President Mike Pence lashed out at Britain, France and Germany at a conference on Middle East security, accusing them of trying to “break American sanctions” against Iran and demanding that they abandon the Iranian nuclear accord. His attempts to wrangle an anti-Iran alliance led to awkward moments. Switzerland: A warmer climate is rapidly melting away most of the glaciers in the Alps, and engineers are adjusting their approach to the country’s biggest energy source — water.Climate change: Thousands of young people in Britain are expected to take to the streets on Friday to join a growing youth-led movement across Europe protesting insufficient action on climate change. India: Prompting comparisons to censorship in China, India’s government proposed giving itself enormous new powers to suppress internet content. Critics say the regulations would be unconstitutional. Egypt: The country’s Parliament approved a sweeping measure that clears the way for President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi to stay in power until 2034, further entrenching his authoritarian rule and the military’s dominance.Chad: French airstrikes against Chadian rebels this month in support of Chad’s longtime autocratic ruler, Idriss Déby, unsettled members of the opposition and resurfaced questions about whether France operates as a neocolonial power in parts of Africa. Sweden: The country placed its ambassador to China under investigation after she was accused of arranging unauthorized, secret talks to free a detained Swedish bookseller.Britain: A 19-year-old woman who left Britain in 2015 to join ISIS and recently fled its last speck of territory in Syria told a newspaper that she was nine months pregnant and wanted to come home. But her future is deeply uncertain. Ryan Adams: Seven women and over a dozen associates came forward with accounts of how the prolific singer-songwriter dangled career opportunities while pursuing female artists for sex. He has denied the accusations.London: The Japanese architect Junya Ishigami will design this year’s Serpentine Pavilion, a temporary structure put up each summer in Hyde Park. Overlooked no more: Mabel Grammer’s self-run adoption agency made it possible for marginalized mixed-race children in Germany to find homes after World War II. She didn’t get a Times obituary, until now. Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Looking for a light meal? Serve simmered kabocha squash over rice with a fried egg. The environmental impact of growing flowers commercially is higher than you might think. Here’s how a romantic can stay green.Considering a trip to one of our “52 Places to Go in 2019”? We’ve collected 52 books to help you explore them.Our Back Story on Wednesday on the Fahrenheit and Celsius scales included a fact surprising to us: The temperature scale devised by Anders Celsius in the early 18th century set the boiling point at zero degrees and the freezing point at 100, the opposite of current use.It was also a surprise to some readers, who wrote in to ask whether we had our facts straight.Fortunately, we did. Celsius, from Sweden, wanted to be able to measure frigid temperatures without using negative numbers, because the minus sign could be overlooked, resulting in errors.Many attribute the reversal to Carl Linnaeus, known as the father of taxonomy. Also a Swede, he ordered a thermometer in the 1740s using Celsius gradations, but with calibration shifted to move in the same direction as Fahrenheit’s.Know of any other facts that are so counter to conventional understanding that they sound wrong? Email us, with “Odd fact” in the subject line.Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning. The India-Pakistan crisis flares up again, China recruits ethnic Muslim minorities to arrest their peers in Xinjiang and crocodiles spark panic in the Philippines. Here’s the latest: The two nuclear-armed neighbors exchanged artillery fire on Saturday, killing at least five civilians and two soldiers.The recent flare-up, with both sides accusing the other of firing first, came just a day after Pakistan returned a captured Indian pilot as a goodwill gesture in a conflict that seems far from over.Dispute: Independent security analysts continue to question India’s claim that it targeted a “large number” of terrorists at a major training camp in Pakistan last week. Satellite imagery of the area showed India “didn’t hit their targets,” according to a think tank in Washington.Go deeper: After an aging Indian warplane was shot down by Pakistan, New Delhi’s military preparedness is receiving renewed scrutiny, particularly as the U.S. looks to strengthen its alliance with India to help keep China in check.The Indian military is in such a troubled state that, according to government estimates, if intense warfare broke out tomorrow, its troops would only have ammunition for 10 days. On the ground: Kashmir’s complicated history, tugged in different directions by two muscular powers, has left its local population living with the constant threat of death and an uncertain future.Perspective: In an Op-Ed essay, the author Basharat Peer blames both India and Pakistan for creating such a hostile environment in Kashmir that a young man would turn to a terrorist group and carry out a suicide bombing, setting off the latest crisis and bringing both countries to the brink of war.In the past few years, as China stepped up its crackdown on Muslim minorities in the western Xinjiang region, it leaned on officers from those same targeted ethnic groups, putting them in the uncomfortable position of monitoring and arresting members of their own communities.How we know: One former police officer, Baimurat, an ethnic Kazakh Muslim who managed to escape, offered The Times a rare, firsthand glimpse into the security apparatus of the region, where the government has detained as many as a million ethnic Uighurs, Kazakhs and other Muslim minorities in a network of widely condemned indoctrination camps.Details: In 2016, after a series of anti-government attacks in Xinjiang, the Chinese government escalated its effort to crackdown on minorities there to turn them into loyal supporters of the party and get them to give up their Islamic faith.That’s when the region’s security forces began recruiting people from those targeted groups, like Mr. Baimurat, who had returned after a stint in Kazakhstan. He said his job included examining travelers at police checkpoints, monitoring mobile phones for any content considered subversive and taking handcuffed people into facilities that were basically prisons.Officers like him, said Mr. Baimurat, were also closely scrutinized for any signs of disloyalty. They were required to attend political indoctrination meetings and prohibited from speaking anything but Chinese.“I came to regret ever coming back to China,” he said.The Pentagon will hold off on large-scale military exercises with South Korea this spring, according to two American officials, as the Trump administration tries to maintain a fragile truce with North Korea and pushes for a resolution after nuclear talks in Vietnam collapsed last week.President Trump first suspended the military exercises, originally intended as a deterrent against North Korea, after his first meeting with Kim Jong-un last year in a move that took the Pentagon by surprise.Go deeper: The recent meeting between Mr. Trump and Mr. Kim was doomed before it even started, as both sides went in with drastically different visions and an inability to agree on a basic starting point.Since 2017, the western state of Rakhine has turned into a global byword for ethnic cleansing, as members of the Buddhist majority unleashed a widespread rampage against the Muslim Rohingya ethnic group. The U.N. has labeled the violence a genocide.But a recent flare-up in violence there now focuses on another ethnic group, the Buddhist Rakhine group, whose shared faith with the country’s dominant group, the Bamar, has not fostered a sense of unity.Details: In January, the Arakan Army, a Buddhist Rakhine militant group, attacked four police bases in the state, killing 14 officers. The assault elicited a brutal response from the Myanmar Army with fatal clashes continuing through February.History: Rakhine State was once an independent kingdom known as Arakan and the ethnic group there claims that they have been left out of the economic development of Myanmar, feeding a rising nationalist sentiment.The Arakan Army, which was founded a decade ago and has killed hundreds of soldiers, aims to take back the state. Huawei: This week Canada will begin the extradition hearing of Meng Wanzhou, a top executive at the Chinese technology company who is wanted in the U.S. on fraud charges. Ms. Meng was arrested in December at the request of the U.S., hurting relations between China and Canada.Saudi Arabia: Walid Fitaihi, a U.S. citizen initially detained at the Ritz Carlton hotel in Riyadh as part of what the Saudi government has billed as a crackdown on corruption, has been imprisoned without any public charges or trial since 2017. His friend says he has also been tortured — including being shocked with electricity and whipped.Syria: The Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons found “reasonable grounds” that chlorine weapons were used in the assault on the town of Douma last year that killed 43 people. The U.S. and its allies blamed President Bashar al-Assad for the attack and launched punitive airstrikes against government targets at the time.Philippines: Crocodiles are a growing nuisance in some parts of the archipelago, with the reptiles increasingly attacking human settlements, prompting people to seek revenge. But the animals are a protected species and some consider them sacred.Britain: Landlord checks on a prospective tenant’s immigration status lead to racial discrimination and violate human rights, a court found. The ruling dealt a blow to Prime Minister Theresa May, who has championed “hostile environment” policies that leave nonwhite British citizens having to prove their status repeatedly as well.Jeff Bezos: For years, Amazon’s chief executive kept a low profile. But in recent weeks, his focused and discreet personality has become tangled in Hollywood’s gossip machine, with his private life and family drama splashed all over the news media.Kidfluencers: Brands like Mattel and Crayola are striking lucrative deals with toddlers and tweens with large social media followings (some deals can fetch from $10,000 to $50,000) in an effort to get their products in front of a generation that spends more time online than watching TV.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Start the week with a bracing, spicy dinner of vegetarian mapo tofu.If you have friends or loved ones who are survivors of sexual abuse or assault, here are ways you can help their recovery.Traveling while holding down a full-time job sounds too good to be true. But it can be done.On Tuesday, the end of the women’s ready-to-wear season in Paris, the last of Karl Lagerfeld’s enormous sets for Chanel will be revealed — the final gesture of a man who shaped fashion as we know it. He died on Feb. 19.Though many designers have created dramatic shows — most notably Alexander McQueen, John Galliano when he headed his own brand and currently Thom Browne — none reached the extremes of Mr. Lagerfeld. He once imported (and then returned) a Swedish iceberg, had a rocket launch and created a sandy beach with real surf — all within the glass-roofed confines of the Grand Palais.Though I was never as big a fan of these fantasy moments as many peers were (I believed the money could be better spent elsewhere, like on a charitable foundation), they were the markers of a time that is coming to a close, symbols of a vision that bridged the couture and Instagram eras.Get ready for the farewell hurrah. Given that Mr. Lagerfeld never did anything by half measures, it is bound to be a doozy.Vanessa Friedman, the chief fashion critic at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. Follow her on Twitter for live updates from this week’s show.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a new report about Jared Kushner’s security clearance, the aftermath of the failed U.S.-North Korea talks, and details of a peace plan in Afghanistan.Mr. Trump overruled concerns from intelligence officials last year and ordered his chief of staff to give top-secret security clearance to Mr. Kushner, his son-in-law and senior adviser, according to four people briefed on the matter.John Kelly, then the White House chief of staff, wrote an internal memo saying he had been “ordered” to grant the clearance. The top White House lawyer at the time, Donald McGahn, also wrote a memo outlining his reservations. The president told The Times in January that he had taken no role in Mr. Kushner’s receiving his clearance. Background: Mr. Kushner’s initial background check took more than a year. Officials had raised questions about his ties to overseas governments and investors, and about his initially unreported contacts with foreigners.Response: A spokesman for Mr. Kushner’s lawyer said on Thursday: “In 2018, White House and security clearance officials affirmed that Mr. Kushner’s security clearance was handled in the regular process with no pressure from anyone. That was conveyed to the media at the time, and new stories, if accurate, do not change what was affirmed at the time.”The two sides traded blame on Thursday after the second summit meeting between President Trump and North Korea’s leader, Kim Jong-un, collapsed with no deal.Mr. Trump said Mr. Kim was unwilling to dismantle enough of his nuclear weapons program to warrant lifting sanctions, an assertion the North later disputed.News analysis: Mr. Trump negotiated directly with North Korea, an approach his predecessors avoided. The risk of doing so is that if you fail, there are few places to go, our national security correspondent writes.What’s next? History suggests that the North Koreans may try to pressure Mr. Trump by escalating. The North has the world’s fastest-growing nuclear arsenal.The Daily: Today’s episode investigates why the meeting fell apart.All American troops would withdraw from the country within the next five years under a new Pentagon proposal being discussed in peace talks with the Taliban.The plan would transfer responsibility for training the Afghan military to international troops, and largely shift American operations to counterterrorism strikes. It has been met with broad acceptance in Washington and among NATO officials.Negotiations with the Taliban to end the war, now in its 18th year, resume on Saturday.How we know: Parts of the plan were shared with The Times by more than a half-dozen current and former American and European officials. The party’s leaders emphasized on Thursday that they intend to pursue multiple investigations of President Trump’s actions rather than an effort to impeach him, after this week’s testimony by Michael Cohen. That position puts the leadership at odds with some rank-and-file Democrats and liberal activists.Another angle: It’s unclear whether Mr. Cohen’s testimony about Mr. Trump’s potentially criminal conduct will shift opinion on either the left or the right. But he did implicate Allen Weisselberg, the Trump Organization’s longtime chief financial officer, who may now face further scrutiny. “Leaving Neverland,” which appears on HBO starting Sunday, is a four-hour movie about the musician’s alleged pedophilia, focused on the stories of two men who say they were his victims as children.Our critic at large, Wesley Morris, writes about wrestling with his fandom as the agonizing stories unfold. India-Pakistan tensions: Pakistan released an Indian pilot today who was shot down during this week’s escalating tensions between the two countries.The 2020 election: Jay Inslee, the governor of Washington who has made climate change and the environment his signature issues, joined the crowded field of Democratic presidential candidates today.Indictment near for Netanyahu: Israel’s attorney general has announced a plan to indict Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust.An appeal to Amazon: Gov. Andrew Cuomo has been working behind the scenes to persuade the company to resurrect its plans to open a campus in New York City, including a personal pitch to Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s founder.Departure at HBO: The cable network’s chief executive, Richard Plepler, is leaving after 27 years there. He is said to have felt that he had less autonomy since AT&T acquired HBO’s owner, Time Warner, last year.Snapshot: Above, Edda, a pug that officials seized from a family in Germany and then sold on eBay for 750 euros, roughly $850, to cover an unpaid tax bill. On Thursday, a spokesman for the city of Ahlen called it “a pragmatic solution” to an outstanding debt, but the case has prompted outrage from animal rights activists and others.In memoriam: André Previn, an Oscar- and Grammy-winning composer, conductor and pianist, blurred the boundaries between jazz, pop and classical music. He died on Thursday at 89.Phone review: Samsung’s new Galaxy S10 Plus is an excellent (albeit $1,000) device with an innovative wide-angle camera. But it lags Apple in biometrics, our technology columnist writes.Record baseball contract: Bryce Harper has reached a free-agent deal with the Philadelphia Phillies for 13 years and $330 million, the most ever guaranteed to a baseball player.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Late-night comedy: Jimmy Kimmel assessed President Trump’s summit meeting in Vietnam: “He flew over there and got nothing — like the Fyre Festival.” What we’re reading: Chris, your Morning Briefing writer, recommends this Pulitzer Prize-winning piece from 2007 in The Washington Post. “The violinist Joshua Bell performed a recital in London this week that I was lucky enough to attend. Twelve years ago, The Post (my employer at the time) conducted an experiment in which he played in a Washington subway station during the morning rush hour. Virtually no one stopped to listen.”Cook: Cauliflower gets the Philippine adobo treatment in this vegetarian dish.Watch: “Free Solo,” the Oscar-winning documentary about the rock climber Alex Honnold, is among our small-screen recommendations for the weekend.Go: When in Venice, join the locals for cicchetti, the Italian version of tapas.Read: Clive Thompson, a longtime tech writer, brings an anthropologist’s eye to the world of programming in “Coders: The Making of a New Tribe and the Remaking of the World.” It’s one of 12 books to watch for in March.Smarter Living: When you’re cleaning out your closet, try finding a new life for your unwanted clothes, whether by selling, donating or recycling them. In 2015 Americans sent 10.5 million tons of textiles to the dump and just 2.5 million tons to be recycled.We also have ideas on how to keep fresh on long days of travel.Theodor Geisel, better known as Dr. Seuss, was born 115 years ago on Saturday.He had a unique take on the English language. His inventive use of rhythm and rhyme is at once ridiculous and intoxicating to children and parents alike.His titles have sold a staggering 650 million copies in more than 45 languages — including Latin, Hebrew and Catalan — and are available in 110 countries.This global expansion came with a tricky obstacle: how to translate him.“The challenge is staying true to the original books while being sensitive to the local market,” says Susan Brandt, the president of Dr. Seuss Enterprises. “And not lose the magic.”The solution? Hire local poets to work with translators. That’s how “Snuvs” from “Oh, the Thinks You Can Think!” became “Lhufas” in Portuguese, and “Hakken-Kraks’” from “Oh, the Places You’ll Go!” became “Scracchi Stridenti” in Italian.And as for Sam I Am? In Spanish, he’s Juan Ramón, and he’s obsessed with huevos verdes con jamón.The last time an American spacecraft carried astronauts into orbit was in 2011. On Saturday, SpaceX and NASA will test a replacement for the space shuttle.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, John Dorman and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Karen Thorne, a content strategist, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the failure of the U.S.-North Korea talks.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Monday, in French (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here.• Fifty years ago, the book “A Day in the Life of The New York Times” chronicled 24 hours at the Gray Lady. On its anniversary, we look at how the news organization operates today.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York TodayBy Azi Paybarah [Want to get New York Today by email? Here's the sign-up.]It’s Friday. Rejoice! The “bodega cat” that was stolen from a Bronx deli this week has been returned.Weather: It’s still winter. Expect snow, mostly in the morning. The precipitation may pick up in the evening.Alternate-side parking: In effect until March 6 (Ash Wednesday).When Michael Cohen testified in Washington for seven hours on Wednesday, he accused President Trump of lying, cheating, stealing and racism.But the hearing had another main character: New York, the city that gave rise to both Mr. Trump and Mr. Cohen.Here are the seven most New York moments from the hearing. Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump fudged finances: Mr. Cohen said Mr. Trump misrepresented the value of his properties. At times, he undervalued his assets in New York to avoid paying taxes, Mr. Cohen said. At other times, he inflated them — like when he claimed $4 billion in “brand value” — in hopes of securing a bank loan, Mr. Cohen added. How Mr. Cohen learned so much about Mr. Trump: In 2006, residents in Mr. Trump’s condo near the United Nations threatened to remove the Trump name from the building. Mr. Cohen, a personal injury lawyer living there, squashed the rebellion. Mr. Trump later hired him. Mr. Cohen’s voice: The Long Island-raised Mr. Cohen spoke in a drawl common to anyone who grew up, say, east of Bayside, Queens. It also was a source of pride, and anxiety, for many who watched. AOC’s  questioning: Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, a freshman lawmaker from the Bronx with a degree in economics, asked Mr. Cohen about Mr. Trump’s finances. The answers laid a bread crumb trail for future investigations, and the entire exchange only took about four minutes. That golf course: Ms. Ocasio-Cortez referred to a 2016 Washington Post story headlined, “Taxpayers built this New York golf course. Trump reaps the rewards.” The course, in the Bronx, has seen a downturn in receipts and rounds played. Lynne Patton’s presence: The most heated exchange was over the appearance of Ms. Patton, who runs the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s New York office. She was invited to the House hearing by a North Carolina Republican to rebut Mr. Cohen’s accusation that Mr. Trump is a racist. A Democratic congresswoman said Ms. Patton was being used as “a prop.” A City Council race that (could have) changed history: Mr. Cohen may have never been entangled with Mr. Trump if he had been successful in local politics. In 2003, he ran for a Council seat on Manhattan’s East Side but lost by 9,540 votes.The takeaway: Local news matters. Much of what unfolded Wednesday was part of a well-known New York saga, elevated on a national stage.A man adds a missing “s” to the name of Frederick Douglass, the abolitionist and longtime New York resident, who is among 77 people featured in the ornate staircase inside the Capitol in Albany.The original carving, with the error, was made sometime in 1890, according to Governor Cuomo’s office. In announcing the correction yesterday, Mr. Cuomo said, “It’s only right that we ensure his memory lives on accurately.”Last June, officials agreed to fix the name of the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge. It was missing a “z.”Governor Amazon Cuomo: Mr. Cuomo spoke with Jeff Bezos, trying to salvage the company’s deal to build a campus in Queens.Riding into the sunset: Central Park’s lone mounted officer is retiring.Goodbye, Park Slope: The neighborhood has changed too much for the Clay Pot.[Want more news from New York and around the region? Check out our full coverage.]The mini crossword: Here is today’s puzzle.Protective gear: The F.D.N.Y. had to get new “spit hoods” that did not look offensive. [New York Post]Arrested: Mayor Shawn Morse of the upstate city of Cohoes was indicted on wire fraud charges. [Albany Times Union]Gunfire: The police opened fire on a fleeing BMW after an attempted traffic stop on the FDR Drive. [The New York Daily News]Wheels: Citi Bike’s electric fleet is expanding, and getting more expensive. [Streetsblog]Saved: A man was rescued from the water in Central Park. [PIX]That’s the number of measles cases in the Orthodox Jewish community in Brooklyn since October, according to the city’s Health Department.Friday:The poet Layli Long Soldier will be in conversation with Claudia Rankine at The New School. 7 p.m. [$20]Comedians will improvise a “Real Housewives” episode at the Peoples Improv Theater. 7 p.m. [$8]At the 53rd Street Library’s pizza and a movie night, teens won’t know what film they’re watching until their votes are counted. 5 p.m. [Free]A screening of shorts by Asian-American filmmakers at the Caveat. 6:30 p.m. [$8]Saturday:Mwenso & the Shakes bring a fusion of blues, funk, R&B and African music to Flushing Town Hall for a dance workshop and performance. 7 p.m. [$16]A day party celebrating queer music icons at C’mon Everybody in Bed-Stuy. 4 p.m. [Free]Sunday:Watch for deer at this park-ranger-led hike at Greenbelt Nature Center on Staten Island. 1 p.m. [Free]Comedians host a live show about #adulting at Union Hall in Park Slope. 5 p.m. [$10]— Iman Stevenson Events are subject to change, so double-check before heading out. For more events, see the going-out guides from The Times’s culture pages.Randy Scott Slavin of Murray Hill is, to put it mildly, a drone enthusiast. He remembers flying a drone through the arch at Washington Square Park in 2012, when that sort of thing was legal. (He said police officers would watch in amazement.)Then, there are people who, as Mr. Slavin puts it, have “weird fears” that drones are not only “spying” on people, but are “going to kill somebody.”The ones Mr. Slavin uses, he assured me, will not.The thing that drones do well is “low-altitude cinematography,” he said. “It’s like the space between what a crane can do and what a helicopter can do.”Mr. Slavin created the New York City Drone Film Festival five years ago. It’s part of a two-day event dedicated to all things drones. The film screenings begin tonight at 7:30. Panels and demonstrations begin at 5 p.m. and continue tomorrow. (Here is a schedule of events).Each film in the festival is less than five minutes.Tomorrow, there are bonus films.The first is the 20-minute documentary “Some Kind of Drone” about the Lily drone. Mr. Slavin said the Lily is a well-known cautionary tale in the industry: “It’s the Fyre Festival of drones.”After that will be a 90-minute feature titled, appropriately enough, “The Drone.”What’s that about?“A drone that comes to life and starts killing people,” Mr. Slavin said.It’s Friday — keep your head up.Dear Diary:It was the usual weekend delay at the Grand Street station. When the B train finally arrived, riders packed in, scrambling for something — anything!— to hold on to.A woman wearing glasses lost her balance when the train jerked abruptly. She tipped backward into the back of a man facing away from her.The man turned and hit her in the face. Her glasses soared into the air. He cursed at her before quickly moving away.Everyone in the car was stunned into silence. The woman gathered herself.“Has anyone seen my glasses?” she asked. “I need them to see.”Everyone’s eyes shot around the car. A young woman next to me got down on her knees. I shined my phone flashlight under the seats.Someone yelled out that they’d found the glasses.“You’re bleeding,” someone else said to the woman.We all mobilized again. An older man fished a tissue out of his pocket. A younger man turned his backpack inside out and pulled out two bandages.“Thank you,” the woman said as she accepted the items and our expressions of solace. “It was only a matter of time before that guy exploded. It could’ve happened to anyone, so I’m glad it was at me, rather than somebody else.”When the train got to the next station, she sat down, looking calm rather than shaken.— Shinhee KangNew York Today is published weekdays around 6 a.m. Sign up here to get it by email. You can also find it at nytoday.com.We’re experimenting with the format of New York Today. What would you like to see more (or less) of? Post a comment or email us: nytoday@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article incorrectly described Frederick Douglass’s home state. He was a longtime resident of New York, but he was not born there.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Sapna MaheshwariSuper Bowl Sunday is the day when the advertising industry is not only tolerated but celebrated. And as in years past, brands paid millions of dollars this year for the opportunity to make consumers laugh, cry and reach for their wallets.The advertisers for Super Bowl LIII seemed determined to steer clear of controversy for a second year after politically tinged spots stole the show in 2017.Instead, they offered commercials that championed women, looked to the future and also inspired nostalgia for the ’90s — accompanied, of course, by a parade of celebrities. Cameos included Serena Williams, Jason Bateman, Cardi B and the Backstreet Boys. There was a surprise mash-up between Bud Light and HBO’s “Game of Thrones,” and Burger King relied on vintage footage of Andy Warhol eating a Whopper for its Super Bowl moment.[Follow along with live updates and analysis from Mercedes-Benz Stadium.]“It seems like there’s an awful lot of humor and light appeals, and that for advertisers it’s somewhat of a play-it-safe year,” said Charles R. Taylor, a professor of marketing at the Villanova University School of Business. “We’re not hearing about anything crossing over in politics.”Wendy Clark, the chief executive of the agency DDB Worldwide, said that it was hard for ads to break through during a quiet game, describing the array as something of a “mishmash.”“I kind of look at some of these and think, some of them are just fine ads — I’m just not sure they’re Super Bowl ads,” Ms. Clark said. “People have perhaps forgotten that yes, you’ve got all these eyes and attention, but there is still competition for people being around you and talking to you and food and drink and the game itself.”The talk about trouble for the TV business has never extended to the Super Bowl, where the average cost of a 30-second spot climbed to a cool $5.2 million last year, according to Kantar Media. It is roughly the same this year. That figure rose by 96 percent in the previous decade, while the average rate for other prime-time ads fell by 12 percent, according to the firm. More than 100 million people were expected to watch the CBS telecast.Bud Light ran two spots that got people talking, both featuring its medieval cast of characters.One began with a joust and allowed “Game of Thrones” characters, including a dragon, to hijack the spot, ultimately advertising both Bud Light and the final season of the much-loved HBO show, which starts on April 14. (Ultimately, fans might be thirstier for the show than the beer.) The spot tapped into the same show enthusiasm that Doritos harnessed last year with an ad that featured Morgan Freeman and Peter Dinklage.“If you look at Bud Light, they’ve been in this medieval world, so it’s smart on their part to try to get at the love of ‘Game of Thrones,’” said Liz Taylor, chief creative officer of the agency FCB’s Chicago office. But it’s an uncommon type of collaboration, she said.Ms. Clark of DDB said, “No one saw that coming as a ‘Game of Thrones’ ad, and I thought it was a fantastic and very brave pair-up.”The agency Droga5, which collaborated with Bud Light’s agency, Wieden+Kennedy, said that more than 25 people from the show’s crew worked on the ad. That included David Nutter, who has directed several of notable “Game of Thrones” episodes. The agencies sought to mimic the unexpected twists from the show by killing off the Bud Knight.Chris Spadaccini, HBO’s head of marketing, said the network was looking for a “partner that would be willing to make a bold sacrifice ‘for the throne.’”Earlier, Bud Light ran a commercial that showed its characters receiving a shipment of corn syrup, supposedly meant for either Miller Lite or Coors Light. MillerCoors quickly responded, saying that none of its products contain “any high fructose corn syrup” and that a number of Anheuser-Busch items do. The National Corn Growers Association also expressed disappointment with the company on Twitter.“It was interesting they went for a broad brand play there and actually attacked their competitors,” said Jon Haber, co-founder of the ad agency Giant Spoon. “They did it in a funny and cute way.” The aim seemed to be to “put that little seed of doubt in there” for consumers in stores, who are deciding between the three brands, he said.“Pepsi and Coke have done it to each other for years,” Mr. Haber said of the jab. “It’s a tried-and-true tradition.”TurboTax ran a spot featuring a disconcerting character named “RoboChild,” who was told that he could not work at the company when he grew up. Walmart showed an array of futuristic cars from movies and TV shows to promote online ordering and pickup. Ads for Mercedes and Pringles used voice assistants, and robots appeared in an ad for Michelob Ultra.“It’s finally the Super Bowl where the message is more about the future than anything else,” said Mr. Haber of Giant Spoon. “Everyone’s showing their digital transformation capabilities.”Ms. Taylor of FCB said, “That’s kind of the cultural moment that people are tapping into — A.I. and robots and tech.”Derek Rucker, a professor of marketing at Northwestern University’s Kellogg School of Management, said that as advertisers played it safe regarding political messages, they seemed to be relying on technology as a way to safely incorporate modern culture into their commercials.“That theme is very present — I can’t remember a Super Bowl that did it at this level,” he said. “That could go hand-in-hand — where people want to be creative but don’t want to be in any dangerous territory.”Ms. Taylor was left feeling slightly underwhelmed.“Last year, the ads were really fun and took the pulse of the country and brands used their media time to bring a sense of hope and inspiration,” she said. “That’s what I’m missing so far.”Microsoft aired a tear-jerker in the second half, with a spot that showcased a group of children with physical limitations talking about how they love gaming, and are able to play video games through Xbox adaptive controllers. “No matter how your body is, or how fast you are, you can play,” one of the boys said in an online version of the spot.Tech giants loomed large. That includes Amazon, which had a Super Bowl ad for the fourth time.Amazon showed a trailer for a new show called “Hanna” on its Prime streaming service and another ad for its Alexa devices. The latter included celebrities like Harrison Ford, Forest Whitaker and the “Broad City” stars Ilana Glazer and Abbi Jacobson.Amazon, which ran its first Super Bowl ad in 2016, has become a big presence as its overall marketing spending has increased. Last year, the company was one of the game’s five biggest advertisers for the first time, according to Kantar, on a list that included Anheuser-Busch, Fiat Chrysler, Toyota and Procter & Gamble.Last year, Amazon raised its ad spending in the United States by about 73 percent, Kantar said, outspending companies like General Motors, Verizon and L’Oréal.“Their presence makes a lot of sense to me,” Professor Rucker said. “Their target is probably a massive portion of everyone watching.”On a somewhat related note, The Washington Post made a last-minute decision to run a spot — a first for the newspaper. The ad, which ran in the fourth quarter and was narrated by Tom Hanks, highlighted “reporters’ work and the importance of press freedom,” Fred Ryan, the newspaper’s publisher, said in a statement.It showed images of journalists from several news organizations, including CNN and Fox News, and referred to the death of Jamal Khashoggi, the Saudi dissident journalist who wrote for the newspaper before he was killed in October. It closed with the paper’s motto, “Democracy Dies in Darkness.” The Post is owned by Jeff Bezos, Amazon’s chief executive.Did you love “I Know What You Did Last Summer”? How about the Backstreet Boys? “Sex and the City”?Who knew a night of football could bring all of that back!The Backstreet Boys — whose oldest member is only a few years away from 50 — joined Chance the Rapper for a Doritos commercial that remixed the group’s song “I Want It That Way.” Sarah Jessica Parker took a turn as the cocktail-loving Carrie Bradshaw in an ad for Stella Artois, which also featured Jeff Bridges as the Dude from “The Big Lebowski.” Sarah Michelle Gellar appeared in a spot that reprised “I Know What You Did Last Summer” to sell Olay skin cream. And the actress Christina Applegate, known for the sitcom “Married With Children,” appeared in an ad for M&Ms.“There’s a lot of cross-generational appeal with the Backstreet Boys,” said Jennifer Saenz, chief marketing officer of Frito-Lay North America, which is owned by PepsiCo. “They were relevant a decade ago and still relevant today.”In the Super Bowl host city, Pepsi erected billboards and put out recycling bins while “trying to paint Atlanta blue,” according to Greg Lyons, chief marketing officer of Pepsi’s North American beverage unit. The city is home to Coca-Cola, but Pepsi’s signage sought to remind people that its brand was the “official soft drink of Super Bowl LIII.”Bumble, the dating app that requires women to message potential matches first, ran its first Super Bowl ad, which featured the tennis star Serena Williams urging women to “make the first move” in all areas of their lives. Toyota’s commercial chronicled the unexpected path of a football player named Antoinette Harris, and compared her journey to one of its vehicles, which it said “will shatter perceptions.”“The female empowerment theme this year is very real,” Professor Taylor said. “That doesn’t mean it’s overwhelming — there’s still more ads with male lead characters and still more male celebrities — but I think it’s narrowed a little bit.”“I haven’t seen any ads that objectify women, which is awesome,” said Margaret Johnson, chief creative officer of the agency Goodby Silverstein & Partners.“Over all, the gap is narrowing,” she said. “We’re moving in the right direction.”Advertisers largely seemed to be avoiding anything remotely controversial — perhaps seeking to learn from years past.Last year, Ram trucks faced criticism  after it used a sermon by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. as the voice-over for its Super Bowl ad. The timing didn’t help, considering one story line last season was about N.F.L. players who sat or knelt during the national anthem to draw attention to racial oppression and police brutality against black Americans.Two years ago, after the presidential election, Airbnb and 84 Lumber ran spots that were viewed as responses to President Trump’s stance on immigration.This year, advertisers sought to tie themselves to social causes. Budweiser, for example, highlighted its efforts in renewable energy in a spot that featured a charming dog, the beverage company’s Clydesdales and the Bob Dylan song “Blowin’ in the Wind.” And Verizon, for a second year, put a spotlight on emergency workers.One brand appeared to seek attention by creating an ad it claimed was too racy for CBS — a tried-and-true strategy for many previous advertisers. Devour, a maker of frozen meals, riffed on the concept of “food porn” for its spot, with a girlfriend discussing her boyfriend’s addiction to tantalizing footage of frozen food. Ultimately, Devour released a more saucy version of its ad online and one that was deemed appropriate for television.Still, the family-approved version may lead to some questions from the children in the room.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Katie RogersWASHINGTON — As he prepared to finally emerge from the White House on Monday morning, after days of complaining that he had been cooped up there waiting for Democrats to negotiate with him to end a 24-day government shutdown, President Trump momentarily seemed to forget where he was headed.“Getting ready to address the Farm Convention today in Nashville, Tennessee,” the president said in a Twitter message. “See you in a little while.”Farmers in Tennessee would have to wait: Mr. Trump was actually scheduled to visit an agricultural conference in Louisiana on Monday. And when he did, he was on the ground for little more than two hours before flying back to the White House.Mr. Trump has made it a repeated point of pride that he has been confined to the capital in recent weeks while waiting for his Democratic adversaries to give in and agree to spending $5.8 billion on his border wall, but he has actually been stuck in what his allies say is an uncomfortable limbo. It has made him wax wistfully about being unable to visit Mar-a-Lago, his gilded bunker by the sea where if members disagree with him on anything — from the firmness of the house meatloaf recipe to his isolationist approach to foreign allies — they tend to keep those opinions to themselves.So, unable to resume his weekend routine of soliciting friendly advice from club members on the patio or spending sunny mornings at his nearby golf club, Mr. Trump has tried to make the snowy confines of Washington feel more like his Palm Beach cocoon.The results are mixed.Since the shutdown began Dec. 22, Mr. Trump has left the White House fewer than 10 times. He has shared his shut-in routine with America: When not at work in the Oval Office, he has frittered away the hours by watching the multiple flat-screen TVs installed in the White House residence, gazing out of secured windows, tweeting at his enemies and phoning his friends.“Wish I could share with everyone the beauty and majesty of being in the White House and looking outside at the snow filled lawns and Rose Garden,” Mr. Trump tweeted on Sunday as the chaos of an embittered capital was all but silenced by snow. Melania Trump, the first lady, then shared a photo of the wintry wonderland to give Americans a visual.But the flurry of tweets Mr. Trump sent shortly afterward attacking assorted perceived foes, including Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, his first announced Democratic opponent in 2020, and the billionaire Jeff Bezos, seemed to show that not even the most dedicated of homebody presidents is immune from a bout of cabin fever.“I think it was harmful to him psychologically that he didn’t make it down here over the holidays,” Laurence Leamer, a longtime Palm Beach resident who has known Mr. Trump since the 1990s and has written a book on Mar-a-Lago, wrote in an email. “Despite his impulsive exterior, he’s a man of routine, and that’s what Mar-a-Lago is all about.”Both Mr. Trump and White House officials have said that he will remain in Washington for as long as the shutdown persists, though allies expect him to give in and make an appearance in Palm Beach over the long Martin Luther King Jr. Day weekend.In a statement, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, Mr. Trump’s press secretary, said the president was at work whether he was at the White House, one of his “personal properties” or riding on Air Force One.“The president is always working,” Ms. Sanders said. “During the time leading up to the shutdown and since, he has been almost entirely at the White House working to find solutions to deal with the humanitarian and national security crisis at our southern border.”Democrats, Ms. Sanders added, “have spent their time at beach resorts, watching Broadway shows and attending cocktail receptions with lobbyists.”Ms. Sanders was referring to a trip organized by the political arm of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, which flew three dozen or so House members to San Juan for two days of receptions and meetings on the damage to the island from Hurricane Maria as well as a performance of “Hamilton” with its creator, Lin-Manuel Miranda. Although Republicans said Speaker Nancy Pelosi was one of those attending, a spokesman said she, like the president, stayed in Washington for the weekend.A person familiar with the president’s thinking who spoke on the condition of anonymity described Mr. Trump as both a “workaholic” and a “homebody.” The president, that person said, has been sensitive to the criticism that he is vacationing when he visits his assorted properties on the weekends, when in fact that has been his preferred mode of weekending for decades.Stuck in Washington over the weekend, Mr. Trump called into the Fox News personality Jeanine Pirro’s TV show to remind Americans that he was still in work mode.In a lengthy phone call with Ms. Pirro on Saturday evening, the president angrily defended his demand for $5 billion in border wall funding and attacked news reports that the F.B.I. has conducted an investigation into whether he has worked on behalf of Russia.And the president stated once again that he relished the idea of stewing at home alone.“I like the symbol of me being here and them being at some play in a nice location having a good time,” Mr. Trump said, joining in the bashing of the Puerto Rico trip.The last time Mr. Trump visited Puerto Rico, he was panned for throwing paper towels into a crowd.“I haven’t actually left the White House in months,” Mr. Trump said to Ms. Pirro before acknowledging that he had in fact left. “I’ve been here virtually every night, I guess every night other than one day I flew to Iraq and then to Germany to see our troops.”Mr. Trump has long enjoyed puttering around his homes, said Timothy O’Brien, the author of the 2005 book “TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald.” The president does not enjoy extensive travel, or sleeping or eating under a roof that is not his own, and he has long imported friends and associates to visit him for dinner.“Before he was president,” Mr. O’Brien wrote in an email, “he favored the familiar because it allowed an antisocial teetotaler to mingle selectively with other people — on his own terms and under his control — before retreating back inside to do what he enjoys spending most of his time doing: sitting in front of a TV with a cheeseburger watching sports.”Mr. Leamer, the author, said that Mr. Trump is “as isolated as any public figure could conceivably be,” and added that Mr. Trump’s gregarious exterior masked the habits of a loner.""He has walled himself off from the rest of the world,” Mr. Leamer said. “He loves to go out and receive the accolades of his adoring supporters, but as soon as the applause dies out, he’s back into his own private world.”At the conference in New Orleans on Monday, Mr. Trump received a standing ovation — the same reception he gets whenever supporters spot him at Mar-a-Lago. He praised the New Orleans Saints and bragged that an ally had placed about 100 phone calls to make sure that he would actually turn up.Then he returned to Washington for another at-home event — welcoming members of the Clemson University football team to the White House to celebrate their national championship last year.The president greeted reporters in the White House dining room, where he proudly displayed a table piled high with burgers from McDonald’s, Wendy’s, and Burger King. Another table in back was covered with Domino’s pizza and fries.Ms. Sanders had an explanation for the menu, putting it in political terms. “Because the Democrats refuse to negotiate on border security, much of the residence staff at the White House is furloughed — so the president is personally paying for the event to be catered with some of everyone’s favorite fast foods.”Mr. Trump himself called it “great American food.” But maybe it was really something else — comfort food for a president who feels stuck at home.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump plans to nominate David Malpass, the under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs, to head the World Bank, according to administration officials.He’s likely to land the gig. “The nomination must be ratified by the bank’s board,” writes Peter Baker of the NYT, “but by tradition, the United States, the largest shareholder, has long named its president.” Mr. Trump is expected to announce his pick tomorrow.And he could shake things up. “Like Mr. Trump, he has questioned the scope and mission of international institutions such as the World Bank, saying they have grown ‘more intrusive’ and need to be refocused,” Mr. Baker writes. “The larger trend toward multilateralism, he has said, ‘has gone substantially too far.’”That makes him a contentious choice. “The prospect of such a steadfast critic of multilateral lenders leading the World Bank has already sparked concern and dismay within the institution and among international and former U.S. officials who deal with global finance and development,” write James Politi and Sam Fleming of the FT.There were less controversial options. Indra K. Nooyi, the former C.E.O. of PepsiCo; Ray Washburne, the president of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation; and Heidi Cruz, a Goldman Sachs executive and the wife of Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, were all reportedly considered.After the government shutdown postponed his annual address to Congress, President Trump will finally deliver the speech tonight. (His theme? “Choosing Greatness.”) Here’s what’s coming up:A trade plea. He will call on Congress to back the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Free Trade Agreement, meant to replace Nafta. A draft of the speech described Americans as suffering “decades of flawed trade deals.”Plus one for infrastructure. He’s also expected to urge lawmakers to find budget space for repairing and upgrading roads, bridges and more. But the WSJ reports that Mr. Trump feels iffy about some elements of his previous proposals, including private-public partnerships.Border wall demands. Mr. Trump still plans to request money to pay for a wall between the U.S. and Mexico, though he lost support during the shutdown. He is still considering declaring a national emergency to get it, despite an expected challenge from Democrats and growing opposition among Republican senators.And the rebuttal. Democrats’ response will come from Stacey Abrams, a rising star who narrowly lost last year’s race for Georgia’s governorship. (Many in the party want her to run for Senate next year; she may do so.)For decades, Bill Gross was a titan of finance. He turned the investment firm Pimco into a $2 trillion giant. But by the time he announced his retirement yesterday from Janus Henderson Investments — the firm he joined in 2014 after a dispute with Pimco — he was at a low point.The numbers prove it. “Pimco Total Return, the fund he once ruled, returned 2.54 percent, annualized, in the three years through Friday, trouncing the paltry 0.95 percent returned by his new fund, Janus Henderson Global Unconstrained,” Jeff Sommer of the NYT writes. His Janus fund shrank from a peak of $2.2 billion to under $1 billion last year. Mr. Gross was an icon of the bond world. He drew investors by combining mathematical models and broad economic analyses. He advised the Treasury Department during the 2008 financial crisis and gained a reputation as a quirky oracle of the financial world.But he made one fatal error. Robin Wigglesworth of the FT asks whether Mr. Gross was more lucky than brilliant and how much of his success was owed to former colleagues. He picks brilliance, but adds, “Even investing stars need a supporting cast to excel, and forgetting this can be hazardous.”Need evidence that U.S. law enforcement is taking potential thefts of American technology seriously? Look no further than a report by Bloomberg Businessweek about an F.B.I. sting operation targeting Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant.How it went down: An American start-up, Akahn, claims to have developed glass that can make smartphone screens nearly indestructible, and has shopped it around smartphone makers. But Huawei took suspicious liberties when testing a sample. The F.B.I. got involved, ultimately organizing a sting on Huawei executives in Las Vegas last month.Businessweek got a ringside seat. Erik Schatzker, the article’s author, writes that he watched the sting operation from 100 feet away, “in front of a gelato stand.”What now? Unclear. “It’s possible that the government will conclude there aren’t grounds for an indictment,” Mr. Schatzker writes. “If that’s so, it raises a question about the broader U.S. crackdown on Huawei: Is it based on hard evidence of wrongdoing or driven by a desperation to catch the Chinese company doing something — anything — bad?” But an indictment “would show just how far and wide Huawei is willing to go to steal American trade secrets.”More Huawei news: Some telecom companies are standing by the company despite all the scrutiny. And Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany set out conditions that Huawei must meet to build 5G networks in her country.Automation is changing work, flushing people without a college degree out of productive industries like manufacturing and high-tech services and into low-wage dead-end jobs, Eduardo Porter of the NYT writes:• “There is a small island of highly educated professionals making good wages at corporations like Intel or Boeing, which reap hundreds of thousands of dollars in profit per employee.”• But “the employment footprint of highly productive industries, like finance, manufacturing, information services and wholesale trade, has shrunk over the last 30 years.”• “That island sits in the middle of a sea of less educated workers who are stuck at businesses like hotels, restaurants and nursing homes that generate much smaller profits per employee and stay viable primarily by keeping wages low.”• “Recent research has concluded that robots are reducing the demand for workers and weighing down wages, which have been rising more slowly than the productivity of workers.”Democrats in New York State’s Senate are fighting Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s $3 billion plan to bring Amazon offices to Queens — and may have the power to halt it altogether.What happened: The Senate named Senator Michael Gianaris, who has called the incentives promised to Amazon “offensive,” to the little-known Public Authorities Control Board.Why that matters: The board, as Mr. Cuomo has noted, will vote on Amazon’s so-called HQ2 plan, and could veto it. (It helped block Michael Bloomberg’s plan to build a stadium in Manhattan’s West Side 14 years ago.)What’s next: The governor could reject Mr. Gianaris’s nomination, but it would lead to a political fight. Mr. Cuomo’s office said that the nomination put the self-interest of a flip-flopping opponent of Amazon “above the state’s economic growth.” Mr. Gianaris said he wouldn’t use the position to seek concessions from Amazon: “I’m not looking to negotiate a better deal.”More Jeff Bezos news: Washington Post employees aren’t happy that their company’s owner paid over $10 million for a Super Bowl ad.The Federal Reserve’s chairman spent the evening of his 66th birthday dining at the White House with President Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.On the agenda: “Recent economic developments and the outlook for growth, employment and inflation,” according to a Federal Reserve statement. “He did not discuss his expectations for monetary policy, except to stress that the path of policy will depend entirely on incoming economic information and what that means for the outlook.”And on the menu? Steak, an anonymous source told the WSJ.Michael O’Leary will become the C.E.O. of Ryanair’s parent company, but will relinquish that role at the airline.Deals• The workplace messaging company Slack filed confidentially to go public. It’s skipping the traditional I.P.O. process in the same way Spotify did, by pursuing a direct listing. (NYT)• Vivendi is reportedly considering selling a stake in Universal Music Group, valuing the business at $25 billion. (Bloomberg)• Papa John’s received a $200 million investment from Starboard Value, the activist hedge fund, and named the investment firm’s chief, Jeffrey Smith, as its chairman. (WSJ)• An investor group led by Hellman & Friedman agreed to buy Ultimate Software Group, an H.R. specialist, for about $11 billion. (WSJ)• Gannett rejected a $1.3 billion hostile takeover bid by the hedge-fund backed publisher MNG Enterprises. (NYT)• The E.U.’s expected rejection of a merger of Siemens’s and Alstom’s rail businesses raises questions about its antitrust policies. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• Federal prosecutors ordered the Trump inaugural committee to hand over documents about its donors and finances. (NYT)• President Trump plans to name a former oil lobbyist, David Bernhardt, as interior secretary. (NYT)• “Soak the rich” tax proposals by Democratic lawmakers have drawn condemnation from colleagues in Washington — but polls show voters support them. (Politico)• Howard Schultz will take three to four months to decide whether to run for president as an independent, and promised not to inadvertently help re-elect Mr. Trump. (Politico)• A case that Congress and Mr. Trump should increase spending to prevent an economic slowdown. (NYT Op-Ed)Trade• Some trade hard-liners fear that President Trump is being played by China during current negotiations. If the talks fail, the U.N. warns that subsequent tariff increases could be “significantly negative” for global trade. (Bloomberg, BBC)• How U.S. criminal laws became weapons in the China trade war. (DealBook)• And how China’s online censorship helps stifle trade. (NYT Op-Ed)Tech• Google’s parent, Alphabet, reported that its profit margins shrank in the fourth quarter because of huge investments. Investors wiped 3 percent off its share price in after-hours trading. (FT)• As Facebook turned 15 years old yesterday, Mark Zuckerberg complained that people “overly emphasize the negative” aspects of its impact. (Facebook)• There’s interest in Silicon Valley in a wealth tax. But a major obstacle is how to value private-company assets. (Information)• Instagram’s chief, Adam Mosseri, said that the social network hadn’t done enough to help prevent suicide and self-harm. (Telegraph)• Quadriga CX, a digital money exchange, has about $145 million of its customers’ cryptocurrency locked with passwords its former C.E.O. took with him to the grave. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May will head to Northern Ireland today to rally support for her Brexit deal with the E.U., and promises that she will “find a way” to keep the Irish border open. (Bloomberg)• The issue has left the Bank of England uncertain whether to raise interest rates. (FT)• Britain will ease import regulations to make a no-deal Brexit less problematic for its businesses. (WSJ)• Reportedly, it could even cut import tariffs to zero in that scenario, which some British companies find far from reassuring. (HuffPo)• The Bank of England and European regulators agreed to cooperate on oversight of clearinghouses to keep trades flowing smoothly if no deal is reached. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Australian banks overcharged clients, including clients who had died. (NYT)• A Federal Reserve paper says that negative rates would have accelerated America’s economic recovery. (WSJ)• Russia’s economic growth looks sensational. It may be too good to be true. (Bloomberg Opinion)• Betting on low-volatility stocks is usually safe. Not now. (Bloomberg)• An annual income of $81,000 puts you in India’s 1 percent; in the U.A.E., it’s $894,000. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Campbell RobertsonCLEVELAND — When things overheat, corrode and stop working, that is when they call in Gustavo Costa.It’s a rare expertise, critical to everything from space travel to fracking, and it keeps him in steady demand as a contractor at NASA’s John H. Glenn Research Center. It has also put Dr. Costa, a United States citizen since August, within reach of his ultimate dream: working directly for NASA, a government agency as well-known as Coca-Cola back in his little Brazilian hometown.These days, though, Dr. Costa does not make the five-mile trip from his house to the center. He is at home, already forced to consider jobs elsewhere because NASA has all but shut down for reasons that don’t seem to make much sense. Politics — even overheated, corroded, dysfunctional politics — are outside of Dr. Costa’s expertise.“What are they going to do next?” he asked on a cold morning in his quiet living room. “Do they realize what damage they’re causing?”The Civil Service relies to a large degree on good will. No matter how vital high-skilled federal workers are to the functioning of government, there are usually companies willing to offer them much higher salaries — double or even triple in some cases — on top of the free lunches and stock options. As student debt soars and private sector opportunities multiply, the sheer allure of public service — “the mission,” as NASA researchers often put it — is what keeps a lot of talent in the government.The longest shutdown in the country’s history is eroding that good will, already wearing thin after years of pay freezes, unpredictable budgets, and disdain from even the White House for government workers as swamp creatures or worse.Long after the government reopens, this is the damage that could last. If public service loses its allure, it will make it harder to recruit and hold onto the experienced and talented, those who can design spacecraft but also the people who battle epidemics, predict hurricanes and keep the food supply safe.Steve Reaves, a Federal Emergency Management Agency employee who leads the union for FEMA workers, said he knew firsthand of six experienced people who had left the agency since the shutdown began. Two went to BP, the oil giant.[Read more on how the shutdown is affecting federal workers in every state.]“They’re relying on the pure good intentions of the higher skilled work force,” said Matt Linton, a computer security specialist in California who worked for NASA’s Ames Research Center for 14 years. “And that’s what they drain down the most quickly in these stupid shutdowns.”This is a concern across federal agencies and departments — and even, strikingly, at NASA, the gold standard of government agencies, which seemed in the past to have no trouble attracting anyone with the right stuff.The essential pitch is spelled out in large metal letters at the entrance to the Glenn Research Center, a half-moon-shaped cluster of buildings just northwest of the Cleveland airport. “Research and technology,” it reads, “for the benefit of all.”In normal times, around 3,000 people are at work at Glenn, roughly half of them contractors and the other half civil servants, designing subsonic aeronautics or recreating the atmosphere of Venus. For the past few weeks it has been nearly empty.The workers at Glenn are mostly waiting, drawing down savings, wondering about the state of their untended lab work, reading about Chinese spacecraft landing on the moon and pondering the appeal of the public good when a good chunk of the public seems to have little use for it.“All these people seem to be celebrating our misfortune,” said Michael Kulis, a NASA chemist, who had seen comments on social media portraying federal workers as layabouts enjoying their vacations.Or, as one administration official said in an op-ed shared on Twitter by the president, the workers offered “nothing of external value” and were doing “errands for the sake of errands.”A Navy veteran who is the son of a police officer, Dr. Kulis is committed to staying at NASA, but finds all the scorn for public servants disheartening. “We didn’t get Ph.D.s just to sit around,” he said.As a place to work, NASA still measures up against the corporate world, where venture capital comes and goes, big contracts are lost, funders get impatient. Even SpaceX, Elon Musk’s private space travel company, recently announced it was laying off around 10 percent of its work force. There are pensions and benefits in government work, and there is job stability. Or at least there used to be.Recruiters and others at NASA say that even before the shutdown, the agency has not been the draw on top talent it once was. A graduate student interested in aerospace engineering is as likely to be wearing a SpaceX logo as the old blue-and-red NASA meatball.Interns come to Glenn, learn what they can and leave for Lockheed Martin, Pratt & Whitney or Blue Origin, Jeff Bezos’ spaceflight company.The shutdown is not making recruiting any easier. The already slim stipends for postdoctoral fellows, invited to spend their early careers at NASA, have run dry, leaving them at the mercy of online fund-raising. Jeffrey Severino, a college student from the Bronx who planned to spend his winter break developing algorithms on a paid internship at Glenn, spent it instead delivering takeout.“I still want to work for them,” he said of NASA, though he is now asking what he would do if a shutdown were to happen again.[Read more on federal workers taking odd jobs to make money during the shutdown.]Now, even scientists and engineers several years into their careers at NASA are talking of leaving before things get worse.“People have forgotten what public institutions do and the roles that they play,” said one young NASA research scientist, who dreamed of working at NASA as a child in a family of immigrants, and discovered a new planet before he got out of high school.The scientist, who did not want to give his name out of fear of political reprisal, spent much of the past year preparing for an ambitious climate-related project to start in early January, based on his own technology and involving aircraft, boats and an international team of scientists. The shutdown canceled it. He is now working as a Lyft driver to pay the bills, an arrangement that can keep him afloat for only a few more days.“I don’t want to give up on my country, but if you’re good at science and that’s what you do that’s what’s going to happen,” he said by phone on the way to a job interview. “There are opportunities in Canada that have a lot of great scientific potential.”Governments are among the few places with the money and the latitude for research into fundamental questions without immediate or obvious application.This is the kind of research rarely found on Wall Street or even Silicon Valley, where science is typically tied to the bottom line.“We can’t land humans on Mars, reverse climate change or cure cancer without it,” said Lee Stone, a NASA research scientist and a vice president of the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers, a union that represents thousands in the government and private sector.When asked in an email about the shutdown’s effect on NASA, an agency spokeswoman, Katherine Brown, had an automatic reply that she was in furlough status and unable to respond.Mr. Linton, the California computer security specialist, had considered himself “a lifer” at NASA. “I felt like my job meant something,” he said.But in the fall of 2013, Congress could not agree about a budget amid a Republican crusade to defund the Affordable Care Act. So, to his astonishment, the government shut down for two weeks.He was the only one in his section deemed essential, which meant coming to the center for four hours a day. The rest of the time he was free to think: about the needs of his young family and about the message sent by a government that deems thousands of its employees not valuable enough to do their jobs.A Silicon Valley firm emailed him, asking him to visit in his spare time. He went, learned he could be making double his salary and shortly after the shutdown ended, left government for good.“Before 2013,” Mr. Linton said, “you at least felt like the whole country was behind you when you said, ‘I work for NASA.’ Now it’s absolutely evident that only 40 or 50 percent of the country is behind you and the other 40 or 50 percent think you’re some sort of fiscal drain.”The current shutdown, he said, was proof that he was right to leave when he did.His old colleagues at NASA now see that, too. He has been getting emails from them over the past few weeks, he said. They are asking for references.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byTHE STONEIt is unclear whether the Lyceum charged fees but, given its vast wealth, it probably didn’t need to. Sounds a little like Harvard, doesn’t it?By Simon CritchleyMr. Critchley is a professor of philosophy and an author. ATHENS — Aristotle had slender calves. His eyes were small. And he spoke with a lisp, which — according to Plutarch — was imitated by some. He wore many rings and had a distinctive, rather exotic style of dress — a kind of ancient bling.I tried to piece together a picture of him as I arrived with my partner at the site of the Lyceum, Aristotle’s answer to Plato’s Academy, where I had visited the week before.It is said that Aristotle was a difficult character — somewhat arrogant, thinking he was cleverer than everyone else (quite possibly true) and even criticizing his master of many years, Plato. He was a perhaps a bit of a dyskolos, a grouch, cantankerous, a curmudgeon.Aristotle was not much loved by the Athenians. This might have been because he was a tricky customer or because he was a metic: a resident alien, an ancient green card holder; Greek, but decidedly not an Athenian citizen. Given his close ties to the Macedonian aristocracy, which was extending and tightening its military and political control across Greece, perhaps the Athenians were right to be suspicious of Aristotle.We do know that after having served as Lector in the Academy and being described as its “Mind” by Plato, Aristotle was not chosen as the latter’s successor. The job of scholarch, or head of the school, went to Speusippus, Plato’s nephew. Aristotle left Athens shortly after Plato’s death and stayed away for around 12 years. Was he angry or disappointed not to have been chosen as head of the Academy? Famously, Aristotle was asked by Philip II of Macedon to be the tutor of his 13-year-old son, Alexander. Aristotle set up school in the Macedonian fortress of Mieza, and the young prince was taught together with his companions, who probably numbered around 30 students. A big class. This was a closed school, a boarding school of sorts. A sense of the seriousness with which Aristotle performed his duties can be gleaned from the fact that he composed two treatises in honor of Alexander, “On Kingship” and “On Colonies,"" as guidebooks for the prince, as well as editing a copy of Homer’s “Iliad” specifically for Alexander’s use — the so-called “casket copy” (presumably because it was kept in a casket).Very little is known about Aristotle’s stay in Macedonia, but it is thought that he was there for quite some time, possibly seven years, and became very friendly with powerful members of Philip’s court. In 336 B.C.E., Philip was assassinated (in a theater, of all places), and Alexander was declared king at the age of 20. Sensing the instability of political transition, the mighty city of Thebes rebelled against the new Macedonian king. In order to set an example, Alexander besieged and then wholly incinerated the city, wiping it from the map. Its citizens were either killed or sold into slavery.Athens didn’t make the same mistake as Thebes and meekly submitted to the Macedonian pike. It is in this context that Aristotle returned to the city at around age 50. And he came back big time. Because of his metic status, Aristotle was not allowed to buy property. So — as one does — he rented. He took over a gymnasium site sacred to Apollo Lyceus (the wolf-god) and transformed it into the most powerful and well-endowed school in the world.Two things hit you when you visit the site of the Lyceum and look at its architectural plans. First, it is a direct copy of Plato’s Academy. And second, it is much, much bigger. The relation between the Academy and the Lyceum is a little like that between a twee medieval Cambridge College and the monumental architecture of the University of Chicago.The reason Aristotle was able to do this was simple: money. If Plato was rich, then Aristotle was wealthier than Croesus, right up there with the Jeff Bezos-es of his day. He received the sum of 800 talents from his presumably grateful former student, Alexander, which was an enormous amount of money. (Consider that the Plato’s Academy cost about 25-30 talents.)Expressing ancient money values in modern terms presents a perennial puzzle for historians of economics, so I called on my colleague, the economist Duncan Foley, for help. He very roughly calculated that the annual gross domestic product of classical Athens was about 4,400 talents. If that is right, then 800 talents is a vast figure, 32 times the expenditure on the Academy. Foley is somewhat skeptical of the figure, though. Ancient sources for numerical data (like the size of armies) are notoriously inaccurate, so perhaps a excited copyist simply added a zero.Whatever the truth of the matter, Aristotle’s endowment allowed him to build a huge research and teaching facility and amass the largest and most important library in the world. During the time of Theophrastus, Aristotle’s successor as scholarch and clearly a very effective college president, there were as many as 2,000 pupils at the Lyceum, some of them sleeping in dormitories. The Lyceum was clearly the place to be, the educational destination of choice for the elites. It leads one to ponder the awkward proximity between philosophy and political power. It is unclear whether the school charged fees but, given its vast wealth, it probably didn’t need to. It sounds a little like Harvard, doesn’t it?The Lyceum was clearly the intellectual projection of Macedonian political and military hegemony. In 323 B.C.E., when news of Alexander the Great’s death in Babylon at the age of 32 reached Athens, simmering anti-Macedonian sentiment spilled over, and the popular Athenian leader Demosthenes was recalled. Aristotle left the city for the last time, in fear of his life, after a little more than a decade in charge of the Lyceum. Seeing himself justly or unjustly in the mirror of Socrates and fearing charges of impiety, Aristotle reportedly said, “I will not allow the Athenians to sin twice against philosophy.” Aristotle withdrew to his late mother’s estate at Chalcis on the island of Euboea and died there shortly after of an unspecified illness, at age 63.Looking now at the beautifully maintained site of the Lyceum, which is comparatively new by Athenian standards (as excavations only began in 1996, and it was opened to the public in 2014), we are only now beginning to form a proper picture of the plan, architecture and function of the Lyceum. A book detailing our knowledge of Aristotle’s school, by the archaeologist Efi Lygouri-Tolia and our constant companion, Konstantinos Sp. Staikos, is currently being prepared for publication. But when I was wandering around the ruins, it was something else that caught my eye and tickled my fancy: the garden. In the northeast corner of the Lyceum, there was a garden, which possibly led to the peripatos, or shaded walk from which the promenading Peripatetic school derived its name. Indeed, there were gardens in all the earlier philosophical schools, in the schools of Miletus on the present-day Turkish coast, and allegedly in the Pythagorean schools in southern Italy. Plato’s Academy also had a garden. And later, the school of Epicurus was simply called “The Garden.” Theophrastus, a keen botanist like Aristotle who did so much to organize the library and build up its scientific side (with maps, globes, specimens and such like), eventually retired to his garden, which was close by.What was the garden for? Was it a space for leisure, strolling and quiet dialectical chitchat? Was it a mini-laboratory for botanical observation and experimentation? Or was it — and I find this the most intriguing possibility — an image of paradise? The ancient Greek word paradeisos appears to be borrowed etymologically from Persian, and it is said that Darius the Great had a “paradise garden,"" with the kinds of flora and fauna with which we are familiar from the elaborate design of carpets and rugs. A Persian carpet is like a memory theater of paradise. It is possible that Milesian workers and thinkers had significant contact with the Persian courts at Susa and Persepolis. Maybe the whole ancient Greek philosophical fascination with gardens is a Persian borrowing, and an echo of the influence of their expansive empire. But who knows?I am hardly a gardener. In fact, I have always been remarkably insensitive to the pleasures that many green-fingered folk find in their backyards. Voltaire’s advice in “Candide” that “Il faut cultiver notre jardin” (”It is necessary to look after our garden”) always struck me as ironic, flippant and defeatist. But now I am not so sure. Perhaps there is a much closer relation between gardens and philosophical thought than we might at first imagine. At the end of the “Nicomachean Ethics,” Aristotle sees the promise of philosophy as the cultivation of the contemplative life, the bios theoretikos that would be the equal to the life of the gods. What better place for this than a garden? Might not botany be the royal road to paradise, an activity at once empirical and deeply poetic?I visited the Lyceum with my partner, who has keener eyes than I. Together we identified thyme, lavender, abundant wildflowers, gigantic rosemary bushes, olive trees, cypress and possibly oregano. A carpet of moss with varying shades of green was framed by the sandy yellow footings of the ruins. The whole site suddenly seemed to be a garden, and one could feel the proximity to the peak of Mount Lycabettus and outward to the mountains that girdle Athens and the open blue sky.Very low rope barriers separated off areas that visitors were not meant to visit. I looked around for a guard, saw no one, and stepped onto the green moss and made my way quietly to the location of Aristotle’s library. On my hands and knees, I saw the ground was littered with tiny delicate snail shells, no bigger than a fingernails, scattered like empty scholars’ backpacks. My partner gave me one, and I put it in my pocket. I had it on my desk right in front of me as I was writing this. Inadvertently, I crushed it to pieces under the weight of one of Mr. Staikos’s huge tomes on the history of libraries. There’s probably a moral in this, but it escapes me.Simon Critchley is a professor of philosophy at the New School for Social Research and the author of several books, including “What We Think About When We Think About Soccer,” and the forthcoming “Tragedy, the Greeks, and Us.” He is the moderator of The Stone.Now in print: “Modern Ethics in 77 Arguments,” and “The Stone Reader: Modern Philosophy in 133 Arguments,” with essays from the series, edited by Peter Catapano and Simon Critchley, published by Liveright Books.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A new research paper tracked the political donations of thousands of C.E.O.s from 2000 through 2017. The results, Andrew writes in his latest column, reveal what top business leaders really think about politics.They’re usually Republican. Nearly 58 percent of C.E.O.s showed a preference for the G.O.P., with just 18 percent designated as Democrats. (For executives to be counted as either, two thirds of their donations had to go to candidates affiliated with one party.)About a quarter were considered neutral. The report doesn’t disclose who was in each category, but its authors told Andrew that Tim Cook of Apple was neutral, having donated to both Hillary Clinton and Paul Ryan over the years.The disparity was narrower in some sectors. Tech and internet companies had somewhat more Democratic-leaning C.E.O.s. And female leaders were nearly evenly split between the G.O.P., Democrats and neutral territory.But the Republicans are quieter. The study found that there was a statistically significant association between a company having a Republican C.E.O. and less disclosure of political contributions.Why it matters: “The opinions held by executives have always resonated beyond their own industries, but their importance is more pronounced today,” Andrew writes. “Mr. Trump, for example, has not hesitated to equate economic policy with foreign policy. It is, then, instructive to understand the political views of our business leaders.”The U.S. and China will embark on another round of high-level trade talks in a final attempt to hash out an agreement, according to the WSJ.• “U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin plan to fly to Beijing next week to meet with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He, Trump administration officials said.”• “The following week, a Chinese delegation led by Mr. Liu is expected to continue talks in Washington.”There are conflicting views on how far they’ve got: America seems upbeat. President Trump yesterday said that talks were “going very well,” and Myron Brilliant, executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said that “we’re in the endgame.” But China may be wary. “Some U.S. negotiators are concerned that China is pushing back against American demands in trade talks,” Bloomberg reports, citing unnamed sources. It may walk back some promises because they didn’t prompt assurances about American concessions.A deal could be ready by the end of April if the next talks go well, the WSJ estimates, about a month later than previously expected.Meanwhile, in Europe:  President Xi Jinping’s trip to Italy and France this week is drawing attention to Europe’s conflicted views on China.After years of criticism, Facebook said it would no longer permit advertisers in key categories to show their messages only to people of a certain race, gender or age group, Noam Scheiber and Mike Isaac of the NYT report.• Anyone advertising housing, jobs or credit would no longer have the option of explicitly aiming ads on the basis of those characteristics.• The new rules also cover advertising on Instagram and Messenger, which Facebook owns.• Facebook said it planned to carry out the changes by the end of the year.• The changes are part of a settlement with groups that have sued Facebook over these practices in recent years.The shift will annoy advertisers. Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s C.O.O., told the NYT that the changes could make advertising on Facebook less efficient for some customers, but that it was “a cost well worth bearing.”And it has limits. “I don’t think it solves the problem of the potential for biased serving of ads,” Pauline Kim, a professor of employment law at Washington University in St. Louis, told the NYT. She explained that Facebook’s algorithms could show any ad to a particular audience if that audience were determined to be likelier to click on it.More Facebook news: Representative David Cicilline, the head of the House antitrust subcommittee, explains why he is calling on the F.T.C. to investigate the company. And are we asking it the wrong questions in the wake of the Christchurch shooting?In the wake of two fatal crashes involving Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane, a new focus for investigations is how the F.A.A. certified the jet as safe, David Gelles and Tom Kaplan of the NYT report.• “The 737 Max was one of the first commercial jets approved under new rules, which delegated more authority to Boeing than had been the case when most previous planes were certified.”• “Top F.A.A. officials, who are briefed on significant safety issues, were not aware” of an automated piloting system suspected in the crashes, Mr. Gelles and Mr. Kaplan report, citing unnamed sources.• “The software did not elicit what are known as special conditions, usually applied to a novel feature that requires additional regulations before it can be certified as safe.” But other features, like non-rechargeable lithium batteries, received that designation.• Skepticism about the F.A.A.’s approval process existed before the crashes. “In 2012, an investigation by the Transportation Department’s Office of Inspector General found that F.A.A. managers had not always been supportive of efforts by agency employees to ‘hold Boeing accountable.’ ”• “The United States transportation secretary, Elaine L. Chao, on Tuesday called for her agency’s internal watchdog to open an inquiry into the process.”More aviation news: President Trump nominated Stephen Dickson, a former Delta Air Lines executive, to lead the F.A.A. And an off-duty pilot reportedly helped save a Lion Air 737 Max 8 flight in software-driven trouble just one day before the same jet crashed.The tech giant introduced a service yesterday that allows people to play high-definition games instantly over the internet. It’s hoping to lead a revolution in the $135 billion industry.Think of it as Netflix for video games. “The new service, called Stadia, will work for anyone with a fast internet connection and a computer, phone or tablet,” Daisuke Wakabayashi and Brian Chen of the NYT write. “Users pay a subscription to access a library of games that they can immediately play, as opposed to the traditional model of paying for a disc or waiting to download a game.”This isn’t the only game-streaming option. Sony offers one called PlayStation Now, and Microsoft plans to test something similar this year. The idea hasn’t yet hit the mainstream because streaming games is more technically demanding than streaming movies — and therefore prone to glitches.Plenty of unanswered questions hang over the announcement. What games will be available? How much will the service cost? And more fundamentally, what is Google’s business model? None of that is clear.But Google has not-so-secret weapons. “Using the global network of data centers that run its internet empire, it is set to unleash enough raw computing power to blow away the industry’s current way of doing things,” the FT writes, and it has “YouTube as a shop window.” Shares in Sony and Nintendo tumbled after the announcement.More Google news: In Europe, the company is changing how it displays some search results, and is giving Android users a choice of web browser to stave off complaints — and potential fines — from antitrust regulators.Just after midnight Eastern Time, Walt Disney closed its $71.3 billion takeover of 21st Century Fox. It has become, Brooks Barnes of the NYT writes, “an entertainment colossus the size of which the world has never seen.”Disney now owns an enviable array of assets. It already runs blockbuster properties like Marvel, Lucasfilm and ESPN, and a huge global theme-park operation. But buying most of Rupert Murdoch’s media empire brings:• The 20th Century Fox movie and TV studios, home to “X-Men” and “The Simpsons”• The Nat Geo and FX cable channels• Most of the Hulu streaming service• Star, the fast-growing Indian video providerThe consequences could be huge. Smaller studios may have to merge. Theater owners could lose out on box-office splits. And Disney’s efforts to dominate streaming could pose big challenges to Netflix, Amazon and Apple.But the stakes are high. “Mr. Iger and his lieutenants need to persuade investors to start viewing Disney more like a technology company, where near-term financial turbulence is often overlooked,” Mr. Barnes writes. And melding two corporate cultures isn’t easy.Anheuser-Busch InBev named Marty Barrington, the former C.E.O. of Altria, as its new chairman. Alex Behring, the head of the investment firm 3G Capital, stepped down from the board.Paul Ryan, the former House speaker, has joined the board of Fox.WarnerMedia named Toby Emmerich, Peter Roth and Kimberly Williams as interim co-heads of Warner Bros. while it seeks a replacement for Kevin Tsujihara.Kickstarter’s co-founder Perry Chen is stepping down as C.E.O.Barclays has hired Bob Peck, who was global head of internet investment banking at Credit Suisse, as a chairman of global internet banking.Deals• Lyft’s I.P.O. is reportedly oversubscribed, just two days after it started pitching to prospective investors. (Reuters)• Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany plans to stay out of merger talks between Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank. (NYT)• Apax and Warburg Pincus are leading a $3.3 billion takeover bid for Inmarsat, the satellite operator. (FT)• Glossier, the online cosmetics company, raised $100 million from investors led by Sequoia at a $1.2 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• Hyundai shareholders are expected to back the company in its fight against Elliott Management, which aims to shake up the carmaker’s board. (Nikkei)Politics and policy• Joe Biden reportedly told supporters that he plans to run for the Democratic presidential nomination. (WSJ)• Robert Mueller began investigating Michael Cohen’s emails in 2017, within months of starting as special counsel. (NYT)• How billions of dollars from military projects across the country could be used for President Trump’s border wall. (Axios)• The Trump administration has lost at least 63 court battles in the last two years, often for failing to provide clear explanations and allow public comment on decisions. (WaPo)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain will seek a short delay — reportedly up to three months — to Brexit. (FT)• The European Commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that European leaders may decide whether to grant a delay next week. The current Brexit deadline is next Friday. (Guardian)• Financial services companies may move an estimated £1 trillion, or $1.32 trillion, in financial assets out of Britain because of Brexit, according to the consulting firm EY. (FT)Tech• Apple is working with three nonprofits to develop anti-disinformation programs. (Axios)• Instagram introduced a feature that lets users buy clothes within its app. (NYT)• Myspace, the once-popular social network, says it may have permanently lost millions of photos, videos, and audio files from its peak period. (NYT)• An argument against breaking up Big Tech: Innovation could stagnate. (FT op-ed)• Airbnb hasn’t raised money in two years, so valuing it for an I.P.O. is tricky. (Recode)Best of the rest• Chinese companies are defaulting at “unprecedented” levels. (CNBC)• Economists around the world are trying to find an alternative to G.D.P. as a measure of prosperity. Here’s how that’s going. (Axios)• The S.E.C. plans to examine whether consolidation is reducing competition among U.S. asset managers. (FT)• The center fielder Mike Trout is reportedly near a $430 million deal with the L.A. Angels, which would be the biggest contract in North American sports history.. (ESPN)• Bill Gates has joined Jeff Bezos in the club of centibillionaires. They’re the only members. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kirk JohnsonSEATTLE — Howard Schultz faced a full-court press of troubles as 2006 began. That the Seattle SuperSonics were lousy, having their worst season in 20 years, was only the beginning.Though the Sonics were a storied N.B.A. franchise, with a league championship in 1979, attendance was down at their Seattle arena along with points scored and revenues earned. As the team’s lead owner, Mr. Schultz was facing unrest from fans and partners alike. At the same time, Starbucks, the coffee company he had built into a global giant, was about to hit a bad patch, too, as the first ripples of the Great Recession began to rise into a flood tide.You don’t have to be a basketball fan to know which problem Mr. Schultz was able to fix.The Sonics no longer exist — sold by Mr. Schultz’s group that same pivotal year, and later moved to Oklahoma City and renamed, even the memorabilia packed away. Now, as Mr. Schultz mulls running for president as an independent candidate, his path through that moment says a lot about him — how he handles adversity and uncertainty, and how he grasped or did not the nettle of local politics as the Sonics were flailing, according to more than 20 people who have observed him, befriended him or worked with or against him over the years.His basketball legacy has left many in Seattle outraged to this day, believing Mr. Schultz to be either duplicitous or duped by others. Yet his actions at Starbucks — including a raft of innovations introduced before and during the recession, like health insurance for baristas — became the stuff of adoring Harvard Business School case studies. In Fortune magazine’s ranking, Starbucks is the fifth-most admired company in the world.The common thread — deeply familiar to people in the city Mr. Schultz has called home since the early 1980s, and now echoed in his talk of entering politics — is a kind of idealistic righteousness, combined with obvious conviction about his own abilities and insights. All of which worked like a magic wand in Seattle, except when it didn’t.“There’s no question that he built an amazing business, one that Seattle has benefited from and one that has worldwide reach,” said Greg Nickels, a Democrat who was in his second term as Seattle’s mayor in 2006.“The Sonics episode, I think, was different,” Mr. Nickels added. “I think he got into it and discovered it was not what he thought it was going to be.”Mr. Schultz, 65, a self-made billionaire who grew up in public housing in Brooklyn, said in an interview — conducted, at his request, in a Starbucks — that he had not decided whether to seek the White House and had set no deadline for doing so. A self-described “lifelong Democrat,” Mr. Schultz said that he thought the Democrats were veering too far left, President Trump and the Republicans too far right, and that there was a hunger for a more centrist candidacy like the one he might put up.But he also said, as he had repeatedly in recent speeches around the nation promoting a new memoir, that he would not run if he became convinced his candidacy could aid in Mr. Trump’s re-election.Indeed, his announcement in January that he was “seriously” considering running brought an outcry from many Democrats who feared a split vote. The president chimed in, tweeting that Mr. Schultz, who had never sought public office, “doesn’t have the ‘guts,’” and Warren Buffett called a Schultz candidacy “a mistake.”As a rule in American politics, independents fail to get elected. Since the Civil War, only four minor-party candidates for president have mustered at least 10 percent of the vote: Ross Perot, George Wallace, Robert La Follette and Theodore Roosevelt. Roosevelt, a Republican turned Bull Moose candidate in the 1912 election, couldn’t win despite having been a popular president only a few years earlier. But even getting less than 10 percent can make a difference, as Ralph Nader showed in the 2000 election, which put George W. Bush in the White House through an Electoral College victory even though Al Gore, the outgoing vice president, won the popular vote.For his part, Mr. Schultz believes that an independent president could have a powerful mandate in governing, as a refutation by voters of the bitter and divisive “politics of revenge” that have paralyzed Washington. The example that it could be done would, in turn, draw out a surge of like-minded independent candidates who would reshape Congress, he added.“The current trajectory we’re on demonstrates such evidence of a broken system,” Mr. Schultz said. “I’m looking at the situation and realizing that a large majority of Americans agree with me.”If Mr. Schultz does run, his Seattle experience, combined with a back story of self-made success, would be the narrative he tells and sells. Starbucks started here, and is a different company, Mr. Schultz said, because of the culture that defines the Pacific Northwest. The Sonics failed here and were a Seattle story, too, for which Mr. Schultz has apologized. In his universe, it’s a venti-size place of success and failure.When Mr. Schultz organized an investor group to buy the SuperSonics in 2001, he took the high road of rhetoric. Sounding like a civic patron out only for the city he loved — with the grubby business of moneymaking very much an afterthought — he promised to treat the team as a kind of sacred civic trust.“This ownership group did not get involved to make a profit,” he said at one point in testifying before Washington State Legislature. “We wanted passionate people, about not only sports, but passionate people about our community.”That language and imagery came back to haunt him in the aftermath of the team’s demise.“Schultz became a pariah,” said Gary Washburn, a former Seattle sportswriter who now covers the N.B.A. for The Boston Globe.In February 2006, Mr. Schultz drove to the State Capitol in Olympia, plunked down in front a microphone in a wood-paneled Senate meeting room and repeated what some considered a threat — that he might have to sell the Sonics if he didn’t get more than $200 million in public money for renovations to their arena.He said the Sonics were losing money because they had a terrible, uncompetitive arena lacking in the profitable add-ons that other franchises had, like restaurants and stores. Public money had been lavished on other sports in Seattle in past years, he pointed out — with new play spaces for the Mariners, a baseball team, and the Seahawks, a football team. It was time to bestow some love on the N.B.A., Mr. Schultz said.It did not go well. The Sonics bailout bill did not even come up for a final vote. The political appeal of financing athletic venues had faded after the 2000 dot-com economic bust, and a ballot measure aimed at reducing taxpayer money in professional sports was gaining favor even as Mr. Schultz testified. Initiative 91, as it was called, was approved that fall by a 74 percent majority.Several people who were in the Legislature at the time said that Mr. Schultz, who had never been very involved in politics or lobbying, was treated like the outsider he was, and never appeared to understand the network of informal alliances that stood in his way. Calls were coming to legislative offices from people connected to the city’s other sports teams, saying they didn’t much like the idea of financing a lot of expensive new skybox seats.“The Mariners and Seahawks people were not terribly encouraging — they had several back channels, and sort of front channels of stuff going on,” said James McIntire, a Democratic state representative at the time who later served two terms as state treasurer.Art Thiel, a longtime columnist and sportswriter who covered the Sonics story, said Mr. Schultz simply didn’t understand the state capital. “He thought that he could do as a pro sports owner the same sorts of things that he could do as a successful business owner, which is either to charm the opposition or bully them,” he said. “He got neither done.”Barely five months after hitting a wall at the legislature, Mr. Schultz made good on his warning, announcing that he and his co-owners had sold the team to a group based in Oklahoma, which moved it and renamed it the Thunder.Mr. Schultz now calls that decision one of the major regrets of his life.“My biggest mistake still reverberates,” Mr. Schultz wrote in a recent op-ed piece in The Seattle Times. In his book, he elaborates on what happened: “Almost everyone blamed me, and after some initial denial, I realized they were right to do so. I had squandered the very public trust that I had bought into.”A longtime friend of Mr. Schultz’s, Howard Behar, a former vice president at Starbucks, said that while Mr. Schultz learned from the experience, he had been warned in advance that straying from the world he knew might be dangerous.“When he bought that company, I had a quote in the local newspaper in Seattle. I said: ‘No good will come from this — I think he’s nuts,’” Mr. Behar recalled. “And I was right. No good came from it.”The storied names of the Seattle business world roll off the tongue all over the world: Amazon, Boeing, Eddie Bauer, Microsoft, REI, Starbucks. And just as Microsoft is associated with its co-founders, Bill Gates and Paul Allen, and Amazon with its founder, Jeff Bezos, Mr. Schultz is Mr. Coffee, father of the Frappuccino and coffee sizes in butchered Italian. (The “venti,” for extra-large, which just means “20” in Italian, is a nod to the espresso culture Mr. Schultz fell in love with on a trip to Italy in 1983.)Mr. Schultz, who handed off leadership reins at the company last year, came to Seattle with his wife, Sheri, in 1982, to take a job as marketing director of Starbucks, then just a modest local seller of coffee beans. Only five years later he organized an investor group to buy the company, and then built it — with two stints as chief executive — into a retail giant with nearly 30,000 stores around the world and more than 380,000 employees.But like Seattle itself, with its vast wealth and abundant homelessness, its left-leaning social and environmental policies but no income tax on its considerable allotment of billionaires, the Schultz legacy is mixed.At his first Seattle appearance after announcing his presidential considerations, protesters gathered outside a downtown theater where he was promoting his new memoir. The protesters waved signs about “venti egos” and failed billionaire politicians, while the audience inside cheered at almost every whispered hint of a presidential run.In charitable civic work, the Schultz Family Foundation has been a force in homeless advocacy, working with shelter groups and youth-training centers in Seattle, with a data-driven approach to moving homeless families off the street quickly and into stable housing.“The foundation piloted something and proved that it worked,” said Marty Hartman, the executive director at Mary’s Place, a nonprofit shelter provider that has received more than $4.5 million from Starbucks and the Schultz foundation.But by other measures of civic engagement, like bothering to vote, Mr. Schultz has been less involved. Of 40 elections held since 2003 that he could have participated in as a Seattle resident, he voted only 12 times, according to King County records.“I’m remiss, of course, that I did not vote in those local elections, but you know I travel so much,” Mr. Schultz said in the interview — though he quickly added that he had never missed a chance to vote for president.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)DealBook exclusive: The energy company plans to announce today that it has given $5 million to Catalyst, a nonprofit focused on making corporate America more hospitable toward women.It’s funding Men Advocating Real Change, a Catalyst campaign that teaches male executives how to improve diversity and inclusion at their companies. (Among its tactics: lessons on unconscious bias.) Lorraine Hariton, Catalyst’s C.E.O., said it was the single biggest grant in the nonprofit’s 50-year history.Chevron has been a longtime supporter of Catalyst. It began working with the nonprofit 20 years ago, and Mike Wirth, the oil and gas giant’s C.E.O., helped introduce this program to the company two years ago. It now runs in seven Chevron offices worldwide.Diversity and inclusion has improved at Chevron. In 2010, only 6 percent of its board and 11 percent of its management committee were women. Now, it’s 36 percent for the board and 20 percent for the management committee. “I think the business case for this is compelling,” Mr. Wirth told Michael de la Merced of DealBook, saying more diversity has improved innovation.But there’s still a lot to do. Mr. Wirth said that oil and gas needed far more women in engineering and technical roles. And Ms. Hariton said that while companies have been hiring more women, the number of top female executives remains too small.President Trump is facing increasing pressure from Republicans, Democrats and even some of his own advisers to win the kind of large concessions that Beijing has long resisted, Alan Rappeport of the NYT writes.Mr. Trump has softened his threats against China. “Citing ‘substantial progress’ in talks between the United States and China, Mr. Trump on Sunday evening halted plans to raise tariffs on $200 billion worth of Chinese goods at the end of this week,” Mr. Rappeport explains.But the Chinese may be dangling false promises, some top Democrats say, in hopes of ending a trade war that is damaging their economy, as well as hurting American farmers. Some Republicans fear that Mr. Trump may settle for a deal that simply reduces the trade deficit and offers relief to Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant.Many big sticking points remain, including China’s state subsidies for its businesses. Beijing also still appears to be falling short of the administration’s demands over intellectual property and cybertheft.“The blowback from both directions may leave Mr. Trump little choice but to keep the threat of tariffs alive so that he can continue to claim he’s being tough on China, analysts said,” according to Mr. Rappeport.More: The FT imagines what a trade deal might look like. Trade war is only one of the threats worrying President Xi Jinping of Chin. U.S. companies are planning their lowest rate of expansion in China since 2016. And a delay on further tariffs probably staved off inflation in America.The Securities and Exchange Commission says a series of tweets Elon Musk published last week violate its agreement with Tesla, and wants him held in contempt of court.Mr. Musk got in trouble last year by tweeting that he had “funding secured” to take Tesla private, when that wasn’t exactly the case. Tesla settled, promising the S.E.C. that it would set up “mandatory procedures to oversee and preapprove Mr. Musk’s Tesla-related written communications.”Then last week, he tweeted about a manufacturing triumph, saying Tesla would make “around 500,000” cars this year, up from a target of 400,000. He soon corrected himself and repeated the target of 400,000 deliveries. Tesla’s lawyers conceded that Mr. Musk hadn’t had his tweets reviewed, but argued “the substance” of his post had already been vetted and publicly disclosed. Mr. Musk followed up by needling the S.E.C., tweeting that it “forgot to read Tesla earnings transcript,” in which he forecast production of between 350,000 and 500,000 cars. “How embarrassing,” he added.“This is not an innocuous tweet,” Rebecca Roiphe, a professor at New York Law School, told the NYT. “Insiders have to be careful about revealing misleading information to the public.”Punishments the S.E.C. could seek, Ms. Roiphe said, include a fine, more restrictions on Mr. Musk’s social media use, or even his removal as C.E.O.With just over a month to go before Britain is scheduled to leave the E.U., Prime Minister Theresa May could U-turn on her commitment to keeping to schedule. And the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, under heavy pressure, has promised to support a second public vote.Mrs. May is letting her cabinet think the unthinkable. The prime minister, who has repeatedly insisted that Brexit will occur on March 29, will allow her colleagues “to discuss extending the deadline” today, according to Bloomberg, which sets out what she’d be risking and why:• “On one hand, it would avert mass resignations from pro-E.U. ministers in May’s team, and potentially a defeat in Parliament this week.”• “But it would also risk a destabilizing backlash from Euroskeptic Conservatives.”And Mr. Corbyn has made a big concession to pro-Europeans. He had long resisted a second Brexit referendum, but has had to reconsider after several pro-E.U. lawmakers quit his Labour Party. Stephen Castle of the NYT explains what the reversal means:• “At the moment, it is unlikely that a second vote would win a majority in Parliament because most lawmakers still oppose the idea.”• “But if Mrs. May’s Brexit plan is rejected next month for a second time, then the calculation in Parliament could change.”Dozens of current and former employees of a company called Cognizant, which reviews content for the social network, spoke to the Verge. The investigation makes for grim reading:• “Employees described a workplace that is perpetually teetering on the brink of chaos. It is an environment where workers cope by telling dark jokes about committing suicide, then smoke weed during breaks to numb their emotions.”• “In stark contrast to the perks lavished on Facebook employees, team leaders micromanage content moderators’ every bathroom and prayer break,” and employees “have been found having sex inside stairwells.”• “They are pressured not to discuss the emotional toll that their job takes on them, even with loved ones, leading to increased feelings of isolation and anxiety.”• “Moderators told me it’s a place where the conspiracy videos and memes that they see each day gradually lead them to embrace fringe views. One auditor walks the floor promoting the idea that the Earth is flat.”• “Moderators in Phoenix will make just $28,800 per year — while the average Facebook employee has a total compensation of $240,000.” Facebook’s response: In a statement yesterday, it said it was “putting in place a rigorous and regular compliance and audit process for all of our outsourced partners to ensure they are complying with the contracts and care we expect.”Bank of America plans to erase the Merrill Lynch name from its investment banking and trading arms. They’ll go by “BofA Securities” rather than “Bank of America Merrill Lynch,” and its wealth-management unit will be “Merrill.”It’s the end of an era. Merrill Lynch was one of the best-known names on Wall Street when Bank of America bought it during the 2008 financial crisis. At the time, Bank of America was a big lender, built from years of acquisitions — but a minnow in high finance.The combined firm struggled with culture clashes. Longtime Merrill employees were proud of “Mother Merrill” and the “thundering herd” that was its wealth-management arm. The WSJ reports that Bank of America backed away from changing the name before.But now it wants a seamless identity. “We are continuing to unify the company, continuing down the road we started on a decade ago,” Bank of America’s C.E.O., Brian Moynihan, told the WSJ. (He has also pushed the firm into safe businesses, de-emphasizing the risk-taking that left Merrill needing a buyer.)The only place where staying as Merrill made sense was in wealth management. Mr. Moynihan called it “the No. 1 brand there is.”Last year, President Trump replaced Janet Yellen with Jerome Powell as head of the Federal Reserve. Since, Mr. Trump has broken with precedent by publicly criticizing Mr. Powell for raising interest rates. Ms. Yellen has now made clear what she thinks of all that in an interview with Marketplace.• When the host of Marketplace, Kai Ryssdal, asked if she thought the president “has a grasp of macroeconomic policy,” Ms. Yellen replied, “No, I do not.”• When asked to elaborate, she said, “Well, I doubt that he would even be able to say that the Fed’s goals are maximum employment and price stability.”• “He’s made comments about the Fed having an exchange rate objective in order to support his trade plans, or possibly targeting the U.S. balance of trade,” she added. “And, you know, I think comments like that shows a lack of understanding of the impact of the Fed on the economy, and appropriate policy goals.”Amazon added the former PepsiCo C.E.O. Indra Nooyi to its board.Deals• G.E., continuing to dismantle itself, agreed to sell its biopharmaceutical business to Danaher for $21.4 billion. (NYT)• Warren Buffett admitted that Berkshire Hathaway overpaid for its stake in Kraft Heinz and said it wouldn’t buy more shares: “The business does not earn more just because you pay more for it.” (Bloomberg)• Barrick Gold’s $17.8 billion bid for Newmont Mining has cast a spotlight on two top deal makers: Barrick’s chairman, John Thornton, and Michael Klein, the rainmaker advising him. (Bloomberg)• How lesser-known private equity firms like Veritas Capital and CC Capital are stealing the limelight from larger rivals. (FT)• The telecom company Windstream filed for bankruptcy protection after losing a court fight with a hedge fund. (Barron’s)Politics and policy• Michael Cohen reportedly plans to tell the House Oversight Committee today that President Trump broke the law while in office. (WSJ)• The Senate appears likely to vote against Mr. Trump’s emergency declaration for a border wall. (Politico)• Alva Johnson, who worked on the 2016 Trump campaign, has accused Mr. Trump of forcibly kissing her. (NYT)• Elizabeth Warren plans to forego fund-raising events with big donors. (NYT)• Meet Andrew Goldstein, one of Robert Mueller’s top deputies for his investigation into the president. (NYT)Tech• Telecom equipment appears not to be the only Chinese tech that makes the U.S. government nervous. (CNBC)• California lawmakers want to toughen the state’s already-strict privacy laws. (Bloomberg)• Microsoft defended its military work after protests from some employees last week. (Wired)• Why Toronto is attracting top tech talent. (FT)• T-Mobile has delayed its full 5G launch until later in 2019. (Verge)Best of the rest• Do two troubled banks make one good one? Germany may soon find out. (NYT)• Why proving Jeff Bezos’ accusations of blackmail and extortion could be tricky. (NYT)• Lyft’s I.P.O. has revived a debate: Should a minority of investors be allowed to control a company through dual-class shares? (FT)• The current stock market rally has everything — except investors. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
