0
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersPARIS — Notre-Dame de Paris cathedral went up in flames on Monday evening, a blaze that devastated the Parisian landmark, destroying its wooden-beamed roof and collapsing the iconic spire. It is a searing loss for Paris and France.President Emmanuel Macron has pledged to rebuild the gothic masterpiece, and already within the first 24 hours since the disaster, private companies and local authorities have stepped forward with large donations. Here are the main pledges made so far:LVMHFrench billionaire businessman Bernard Arnault's family and his LVMH luxury goods group said they would donate 200 million euros to help repair the cathedral KERINGFrancois Henri Pinault, who heads the Kering luxury goods company, pledged 100 million euros through his Artemis holdingL'OREALFrench luxury and cosmetics group L'Oreal, along with the Bettencourt Meyer family and the Bettencourt Schueller foundation, will donate 200 million euros in totalTOTAL:French oil company Total said it will donate 100 million eurosFIMALAC Marc Ladreit de Lacharriere, head of the group that runs ratings agency Fitch, pledged 10 million euros VINCIConstruction group Vinci called on all building companies in France to join forces to repair the cathedral in an ""industry-wide skills sponsorship drive""BOUYGUESMartin Bouygues and his brother Olivier, who oversee a telecoms to construction conglomerate, pledged to donate 10 million euros. Bouygues group separately said it was ready to join the ""skills sponsorship"" driveJCDECAUXFrench outdoor advertising group pledged 20 million eurosSOCIETE GENERALESociete Generate bank pledged 10 million euros CASINO The French retailer said its Franprix and Monoprix stores would implement price-rounding operations to support foundations helping with repairs APPLECEO Tim Cook said on Twitter Apple would donate an unspecified sum to rebuilding efforts CITY OF PARIS Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo said the city would donate 50 million eurosILE-DE-FRANCE AUTHORITYValerie Pecresse, head of the Ile de France regional authority that includes Paris, pledged 10 million eurosAUVERGNE-RHONE ALPES REGIONLocal government to donate 2 million eurosEUROPEAN CENTRAL BANKThe bank said it would donate 9 million eurosCAP GEMINIIT services group to donate 1 million euros (Reporting by Dominique Vidalon; Editing by Luke Baker and Peter Graff)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byExecutives have been burned by their previous dealings with big tech companies. But Apple’s promise of a billion devices worldwide was too good to pass up. Even for Rupert Murdoch.By Edmund LeeLike many other media executives, Pamela Wasserstein was wary of tech giants and their attempts to go into business with content creators.“There was great optimism around partnerships, and I think that optimism has largely cooled, and people are now more cautious,” said Ms. Wasserstein, the chief executive of New York Media, the publisher of New York magazine and web titles like The Cut and Vulture.But like others in her position at publishers like Condé Nast, Dow Jones and Meredith, she put caution aside and joined Apple’s media initiative, the recently unveiled Apple News Plus app, which promises to blast out content across more than a billion devices worldwide.The tech giant based the service on an app it acquired last year called Texture, which gave readers access to some 200 publications with a single subscription. The revamped and renamed version, introduced with much fanfare last week at the company’s headquarters in Cupertino, Calif., charges subscribers $9.99 a month ($12.99 in Canada) for content from more than 300 titles, including The New Yorker, Vanity Fair, Vogue, Time, The Atlantic and People, as well as The Los Angeles Times and The Wall Street Journal. (Also included: Airbnb Magazine, Birds & Blooms, Retro Gamer and Salt Water Sportsman, befitting the app’s conceit as an omnibus newsstand.)Weighing the pros and cons, Ms. Wasserstein concluded that Apple News Plus would allow her publications to reach “a new audience in an environment that feels right for us.”Going into business with a tech giant was a calculated risk. Like most publishers, New York Media had seen its revenue shrink in an internet environment where Google and Facebook scoop up advertising dollars and have great influence over what people read. (New York Media’s online sales have grown more recently.) There’s a sense among Manhattan’s media ranks that any deal with Silicon Valley amounts to a fool’s bargain.Now, by necessity, magazines, newspapers and websites have learned to be promiscuous tradesmen to stop relying on one revenue source. They have embraced new business lines like branded content, conferences and podcasts just to diversify and stay afloat.Ms. Wasserstein was among the publishers at the Steve Jobs Theater when Apple unveiled the service. On stage, Tim Cook, the chief executive, contrasted Apple’s editorial approach to the “very different choice” other companies have made. It was a notable remark, given the criticism of Facebook and Google over their role in spreading misinformation.Apple’s plan was something altogether different, Mr. Cook promised. “This is going to take Apple News to a whole new level,” he said. Cheers bounced around the room — half occupied by Apple employees — as glossy magazine covers skated across the giant screen at his back.The marketing event seems to have accomplished its goal. More than 200,000 people subscribed to Apple News Plus in its first 48 hours — more than Texture had amassed at its peak, according to two people with knowledge of the figures who asked not to be named to discuss confidential information. (Texture’s subscribers have not been counted toward Apple’s subscribers.)The New York Times and The Washington Post did not join the effort, despite intense lobbying from Apple. Mark Thompson, the chief executive of The Times, said the problem with the app, from his perspective, was how it “jumbled different news sources into these superficially attractive mixtures,” making it difficult for users to know which publication they’re consuming. A spokeswoman for The Post said that the paper’s “focus is on growing our own subscription base” and that it was not interested in offering its wares through another company.Some executives who said yes to the plan seemed less than sanguine, but they declined to comment publicly for fear of upsetting Apple or violating the ironclad nondisclosure agreements the news companies had signed.In addition to allowing their publications to be part of Apple’s big bundle, publishers have risked cannibalizing their own subscription efforts by signing on. At $9.99 a month, Apple News Plus is a bargain, especially for casual readers. The Journal, by contrast, charges a monthly fee of $39 for digital access. Online subscriptions to The New Yorker, Vanity Fair and Wired — all owned by Condé Nast — together cost more than $10 a month. The New Yorker by itself costs $7.50.The day after the splashy announcement, The New Yorker found itself on the defensive after a Reuters headline blared: “Is it time to dump your New Yorker subscription?” In reply, Michael Luo, the editor of The New Yorker’s website, sounded off in a 13-part tweetstorm advising readers not to dump the magazine. Only a portion of its archive would be available on the Apple service, he wrote, and readers could miss out on certain articles by Ronan Farrow, Jane Mayer and Doreen St. Félix, not to mention the weekly crossword.“The best way to read ALL that we do @newyorker every day and every week is to subscribe,” Mr. Luo tweeted.Patrick Soon-Shiong, the owner and publisher of The Los Angeles Times, seemed unworried about tying the paper’s fortunes to Apple, saying in an email that the service would “encourage more people to pay for quality content.”The Journal reported that, thanks to the deal with Apple, it would add 50 people to its newsroom. But the union that represents the paper’s employees noted the new job listings were open to contract workers.“It would be the first time that we’d see a move toward an unprotected work force,” Tim Martell, the union’s executive director, said. “We don’t like the uncertainty.”To abide by the union’s contract with The Journal, Mr. Martell added, contract workers in the newsroom would be allowed to work for a maximum of 12 months. That suggests the Journal sees these hires as a temporary assignment — a compromise approach — as it gauges the benefits and costs of the Apple partnership.The majority of Journal stories will appear on the service, but with only a three-day archive. Content for niche groups, such as CFO Journal, which is aimed at the financial community, and CMO Today, geared toward advertising professionals, will not be included.For Rupert Murdoch, the owner of The Journal since 2007, the partnership is a way for him to realize his long-held dream of turning the paper into something of interest to readers beyond Wall Street and corporate boardrooms.The mogul was the driving force behind the Apple deal, according to two executives close to Mr. Murdoch. He wants The Journal to include more general interest, sports and lifestyle coverage, and the partnership with Apple gives the paper a concrete reason to move beyond its core readership.Unswayed by sentiment, Mr. Murdoch, 88, recently sold off the bulk of his television and film properties as he refocused on the news business and reshaped his empire into an entity built to survive the final steps of the digital revolution. He was able to extract better terms from Apple than other publishers, the people close to him said, including the ability to exit on a time frame that would be more favorable to The Journal.Mr. Murdoch has worked with Apple in the past. In 2011, when tablets were supposedly going to save journalism, he poured millions into an iPad publication, The Daily, with the help of Apple’s chief executive, Steven P. Jobs. The effort failed to make its mark and was shut down after less than two years.Publications that originated at the now defunct Time Inc. — like Time, Sports Illustrated and Fortune — are also part of Apple News Plus. They were pushed into the arrangement as part of a deal struck by Meredith, the company that purchased them in 2017, according to two news executives familiar with the matter. Although Meredith sold Time and Fortune last year and is looking to move Sports Illustrated, the three publications appear to be locked in to Apple News Plus, at least for the time being. (Meredith and Apple declined to comment.)The economics of Apple’s venture will vary from title to title. After the company takes half the subscription price, its partners will split the rest. How much each media company receives is based on the amount of time readers devote to its content. That model mimics Spotify and Apple Music, which pay record labels based on how often their tracks are streamed.The visibility of individual articles will depend on Apple’s algorithm, which takes into account a user’s preference — you can “follow” a particular magazine or topic — as well as the judgments of Lauren Kern, the editor in chief of Apple News, and her team.In contrast with Google and Facebook, Apple has promoted the human touch. The presence of Ms. Kern, a former editor at New York magazine, has to some degree assuaged publishers’ fears of algorithmic tyranny.“Lauren being there gives me confidence, but it’s not that she knows who we are, but that she knows what great content is,” said Ms. Wasserstein, of New York Media.Although Ms. Kern provides a link between the news media and Silicon Valley, Apple will also have to get used to the journalists now associated with its team. The New Yorker weighed in on the Cupertino event with a satirical story headlined “Tim Cook’s Big Apple Circus.”Apple got another taste of what it has signed up for after it hosted a private party last week for its new partners at the company’s Lower Manhattan loft. In its coverage of the event, Vanity Fair, one of those partners, included a quote from an unnamed partygoer who summed up the mood of the room and, perhaps, the industry at large.The quote became the story’s headline: “Are we at a party, or a wake?”Edmund Lee covers the media industry as it grapples with changes from Silicon Valley. Before joining The Times he was the managing editor at Vox Media’s Recode.  @edmundlee Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byTim Cook keeps taking on Facebook, but Facebook’s stock keeps rising. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. The ongoing tension between Apple and Facebook flared again this week, causing a dramatic hubbub in the tech industry. I’d argue it was a nothing burger. Not because it was unimportant, but because it’s clear that despite persistent evidence that our privacy is being violated, it might not matter. Basically, the two digital giants engaged in an esoteric tussle over how Facebook did an end run around Apple’s very strict rules about data use on its app platform in order to suck up more user data. Through an app intended for internal use, Facebook paid people — including teenagers — $20 a month to track everything they did online. Since Facebook had been warned about this kind of thing before, Apple — noting the move was in “clear breach of their agreement” — retaliated by cutting off the oxygen, and Facebook’s access to its own internal apps. It did not, as many suggested it should, shut off other popular consumer-facing offerings on the iPhone like Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp.Shall I explain more? No, I shall not, because the details hardly matter, except to note that what Facebook did is the equivalent of sneaking out of the house after the curfew your parents imposed after you last sneaked out of the house. To put it more plainly, it was obnoxious and squirrelly and just the kind of behavior that we all now assume the company is capable of. Which is to say, we don’t trust Facebook in any way when it comes to using and protecting the data we entrust to it.[Kara Swisher will answer your questions about this column on Twitter on Friday at 2 p.m. Eastern: @KaraSwisher.]And neither does Apple and its chief executive, Tim Cook. Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder and chief executive, is clearly getting on Mr. Cook’s last nerve. I feel a little responsible for the acrimony, since it was in an MSNBC interview I did with Mr. Cook in March that the older, more seasoned executive decided to go full-bore on the young, leadership-challenged one.At the time, Facebook was in the news for the rampant abuse of its platform by Russia, so I asked Mr. Cook about data abuse. He started by comparing Apple’s business model to one like Facebook’s: “The truth is, we could make a ton of money if we monetized our customer — if our customer was our product. We’ve elected not to do that.”Then I asked: What would he do to fix it if he were Mr. Zuckerberg? His devastating answer: “What would I do? I wouldn’t be in this situation.”Ouch. In Silicon Valley terms that response was akin to Cardi B beefing on Nicki Minaj, except quantumly more geeky. There was a sharp intake of breath from everyone in tech, and a very pissy response from Mr. Zuckerberg, in which he called Mr. Cook “extremely glib.”He then asked his employees to use Google’s Android phones instead of iPhones “because it is the most popular operating system in the world.”Uh huh. Except that seems not to have worked and clearly many of his employees ignored the directive. There were reports that iPhone users at Facebook were left stranded this week when Apple cut off the company’s ability to use other beta and internal apps on the iOS platform. Along with unreleased versions of apps, that also meant employees could not access things like bus schedules and cafeteria lunch menus. Apple has since reinstated use of those internal apps. Not knowing which fresh kombucha was being served at 1 Hacker Way obviously hit Facebook techies where they lived, which was the point. It’s interesting to compare Apple’s response this time to a comparable episode with Google. TechCrunch (which broke the original story on the rogue Facebook app) noted that Google had done a similar thing with a research app. Apple did cut off its internal apps, but there was no public hand-slapping, and the tone between the companies has been cordial. The difference: Mr. Cook has been irritated with Mr. Zuckerberg for a while, as tech companies like Apple have been lumped into the messes that Facebook has created, problems that have attracted the ire of regulators and the media.It is not just Mr. Cook. A top executive at another tech giant termed it the “Facebook contagion,” and added, “they are infecting all of tech with their sloppy mistakes.”But what’s most remarkable is how much Mr. Cook has become the critic-in-chief for Facebook. It gets harder to play that role, however, when Apple makes mistakes, too. This week we learned that its FaceTime service had a significant bug that allowed people to spy on other people’s phones. Attorney General Letitia James of New York and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota both criticized Apple for being slow to reveal the issue to the public.It was too slow. But in the end Apple was properly apologetic and did shut down the glitch. Still, it’s not a good look to have a major privacy snafu right after touting your commitment to privacy.And it comes at a dicey time for Apple, which recently warned it was seeing weaker financial results and is under pressure to introduce even more new and innovative products. There is no rest for Mr. Cook, and many observers, including me, have posited that the next years for Apple will be challenging. Still, it’s interesting that Mr. Cook climbed out on this limb anyway. Some insiders at Facebook are alleging he did so to get the heat off Apple’s troubles. But that’s a canard. Mr. Cook has long been vocal about distinguishing Apple from Facebook when it comes to user data and the importance of protecting privacy.The bigger problem is that such an important issue might turn out to be the real nothing burger. Facebook turned in another stellar quarter this week, which made its stock rise strongly. So despite all the sketchy things the company is accused of doing by Apple and many others, most investors and analysts don’t seem to care, and they will never care, as long as its digital advertising business — goosed by its astonishing and nakedly ambitious ability to suck in data, data and more data from all of us — continues to impress. Simply put, Wall Street does not care. Or to use an old bromide: Facebook is so poor, all it has is money.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestPlus, The National Enquirer is for sale, and Elon Musk must make nice with the S.E.C.By Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.You're a busy person, so here's your quick and breezy catch-up on the latest in tech and business news, plus what to know for the week ahead. Your Monday self will be better for it.APRIL 7-13Your ride is (almost) here, but how much is it worth? Uber’s widely anticipated initial public offering, on track for early May, is said to aim for a valuation of $90 billion to $100 billion. That’s significantly lower than the $120 billion that many investors had expected, although it would still be the largest I.P.O. since 2014. Why the falling numbers? For one thing, the ride-sharing company lost $1.8 billion last year, and its growth is slowing. Plus, everyone has been taking note of what happened after the recent I.P.O. of Uber’s smaller rival Lyft. Its shares have already dropped roughly 20 percent below their offering price. The National Enquirer, the checkout-line mainstay known for peddling headlines about aliens on the moon and, more recently, aiding President Trump’s 2016 candidacy, is for sale. The tabloid is led by David J. Pecker, a longtime friend of Mr. Trump’s, and there’s word of a surprising potential buyer: the billionaire Ron Burkle, a Democratic donor with ties to former President Bill Clinton. The publication came under scrutiny for helping Mr. Trump’s political rise by buying the rights to a story from a Playboy model who said she had an affair with him and then never publishing it — a tabloid practice known as catch-and-kill. The Enquirer is now under federal investigation for claims that it threatened Amazon’s founder, Jeff Bezos, with “extortion and blackmail” after exposing details about his extramarital affair. Just what no one wanted: Six more months of Brexit drama. European Union leaders agreed on Wednesday to extend Britain’s withdrawal deadline — again — this time to Oct. 31. Now, British lawmakers will have more time to argue over their long-overdue departure plan, which they’ve already had three years to discuss. While they haggle, businesses will continue to plan for the worst until Brexit trade policies are settled, compromising the country’s economic growth. On the upside, Britain did not crash out of the bloc on Friday without a deal, which could have wreaked economic havoc. But is the extension just prolonging the inevitable? APRIL 14-20Thursday is the deadline for Tesla’s chief executive, Elon Musk, and the Securities and Exchange Commission to work out their differences on Mr. Musk’s Twitter practices. A federal judge in New York has asked both parties to submit a joint letter with clear guidelines about Mr. Musk’s tweets — namely, when Mr. Musk must get approval from a Tesla lawyer before posting. The S.E.C. sought more oversight of Mr. Musk’s communications after he tweeted erroneous information about Tesla more than once, first about taking the company private and later about its production numbers. (Presumably, he will be allowed to keep tweeting about cheese-related flatulence and multicolored squirrels whenever he pleases, as he recently did.) A jury will get to decide whether Apple owes money to the chip manufacturer Qualcomm, which might sound dull if not for the cast of tech stars involved. Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, and Steve Mollenkopf, his counterpart at Qualcomm, are both expected to take the stand at the trial, which begins in San Diego this week. Top brass from other technology companies, like the manufacturing giant Foxconn, are also expected to testify. The showdown is a culmination of a two-year global fight between tech giants, with Qualcomm seeking back payment for chips used in iPhones and Apple disputing Qualcomm’s claims to certain technology. More big banks will release their first-quarter earnings this coming week, and the results may be stronger than expected if JPMorgan’s report on Friday was any indication. Analysts had lowered their projections for bank profits in recent months for a mix of reasons, including the slowing economy and the Federal Reserve’s changing stance on interest rates. Banks’ performances are often seen as a litmus test for overall economic health, and the latest numbers may offer clues to how much we should be worried about a recession — or whether we’re overly paranoid. Disney unveiled plans to take on Netflix with its own streaming service, which will cost $7 a month when it becomes available on Nov. 12. In other news, J. Crew is considering a spinoff of its smaller, fast-growing brand Madewell to raise some much-needed cash. Speaking of crunches, Boeing still has no timetable for getting its grounded 737 Max jets back in the air, and the costs of fixing the planes — and convincing regulators, airlines and passengers that they’re safe to fly — are starting to pile up.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersPARIS — Notre-Dame de Paris cathedral went up in flames on Monday , a blaze that devastated the landmark, destroying its wood-beamed roof and collapsing the iconic spire, a searing loss for Paris and France.President Emmanuel Macron has pledged to rebuild the Gothic masterpiece within five years, and less than 48 hours since the fire began, tycoons, companies, local authorities and individuals have stepped forward with large donations.Stephane Bern, who is in charge of overseeing the funds raised, said the total was approaching 900 million euros (£780.2 million).Here are the main pledges made so far:LVMHFrench billionaire businessman Bernard Arnault's family and his LVMH luxury goods group said they would donate 200 million euros to help repair the cathedral. KERINGFrancois Henri Pinault, who heads the Kering luxury goods company, pledged 100 million euros through his Artemis holding.L'OREALFrench luxury and cosmetics group L'Oreal, along with the Bettencourt Meyer family and the Bettencourt Schueller foundation, will donate 200 million euros in total.AIR FRANCE-KLMAir France offered free transportation for all official participants in Notre-Dame reconstruction.TOTALFrench oil company Total said it will donate 100 million euros.AXAFrench insurer Axa pledged 10 million euros.BNPFrench bank BNP pledged 20 million euros.FIMALAC Marc Ladreit de Lacharriere pledged 10 million euros. VINCIConstruction group Vinci called on all building companies in France to join forces to repair the cathedral in an ""industry-wide skills sponsorship drive"".BOUYGUESMartin Bouygues and his brother Olivier, who oversee a telecoms to construction conglomerate, pledged to donate 10 million euros. Bouygues group separately said it was ready to join the ""skills sponsorship"" drive.SAINT-GOBAINFrench construction materials group Saint-Gobain said it is ready to provide its expertise for the renovation, notably of the stained-glass windows. CAISSE DES DEPOTS CEO Eric Lombard said the state-controlled bank will offer oak trees to rebuild the wood framework of the cathedral. JCDECAUXFrench outdoor advertising group pledged 20 million euros.SOCIETE GENERALESociete Generate bank pledged 10 million euros. CASINO The French retailer said its Franprix and Monoprix stores would implement price-rounding operations to support foundations helping with repairs. APPLECEO Tim Cook said on Twitter Apple would donate an unspecified sum to rebuilding efforts. WALT DISNEY COMPANYRobert Iger, the chairman and chief executive of Disney, said the entertainment company was donating $5 million. CITY OF PARIS Paris Mayor Anne Hidalgo said the city would donate 50 million euros.ILE-DE-FRANCE AUTHORITYValerie Pecresse, head of the Ile de France regional authority that includes Paris, pledged 10 million euros.AUVERGNE-RHONE ALPES REGIONLocal government said it would donate 2 million euros.EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANKThe central bank said it would make a donation but did not specify the amount.CAP GEMINIIT services group said it would donate 1 million euros. (Reporting by Dominique Vidalon; Editing by Luke Baker, Peter Graff and Toby Chopra)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Don ClarkSAN FRANCISCO — Nasty legal battles are nothing new in the tech industry. But Apple’s conflict with the wireless chip maker Qualcomm, headed for a crucial court showdown this coming week, has a special intensity.The two companies, once partners of a sort, now disagree about nearly everything — including which one deserves the most credit for shaping the evolution of smartphones.Their formidable legal teams are at war on three continents, in a struggle that could affect the division of billions of dollars of smartphone profits and, perhaps, even how much consumers pay for their phones.Now, the action moves to a federal courtroom in San Diego, where jury selection is set to begin on Monday for a trial on an Apple lawsuit and Qualcomm’s counterclaims. The chief executives of both companies are likely to take the stand.The stakes are reflected in the eye-popping damage claims. Four Asia-based contract manufacturers that assemble iPhones and iPads, whose suits have been merged with Apple’s, argue that they collectively overpaid Qualcomm roughly $9 billion in royalties over the years — a figure that could be tripled under antitrust laws to $27 billion.Apple says Qualcomm should also repay $3.1 billion associated with patents whose rights Apple says are exhausted. It has already won a preliminary ruling that Qualcomm should pay nearly $1 billion in withheld rebates.Qualcomm, in return, estimates that Apple’s partners — Foxconn, Pegatron, Wistron and Compal Electronics — owe more than $7.5 billion in unpaid royalties. And it contends that Apple, which reimburses the manufacturers’ royalty payments, should be liable for a doubled penalty that would take the total to $15 billion or more.Qualcomm’s business practices have also attracted harsh scrutiny from regulators in multiple countries, including China and South Korea. A high-profile Federal Trade Commission antitrust suit is awaiting a judge’s verdict after a trial in San Jose, Calif.The world-spanning legal struggle between Apple and Qualcomm touches on two crucial issues for the tech industry: What is the proper balance between patent rights and competition? And what is the proper role of the government in regulating tech giants?“It’s a great deal more than just a legal case,” said Michael Wolf, who has tracked the issues for his management consulting firm Activate.The fight is an existential one for Qualcomm, at least as it has operated for most of its nearly 34 years in business. The company, based in San Diego, pioneered a type of cellular communications in the 1990s that later became a mainstay of mobile devices. That innovation allowed Qualcomm to charge patent royalties on nearly every smartphone sold, which generates the bulk of its profits.Qualcomm has historically charged about 5 percent of the wholesale price of a mobile phone. Because of Qualcomm’s various patents, companies building phones that would connect to cellular networks must pay that fee for every phone — even if the phone does not actually use Qualcomm chips.Phone makers have little leverage to negotiate for lower rates, the F.T.C. argued in its suit, which was filed in January 2017, that leans partly on Apple’s contentions.Because Qualcomm holds monopoly positions in two varieties of wireless chips, the F.T.C. argued, handset makers feared that Qualcomm could cut off shipments if they balked at paying royalties. Qualcomm insists it never used that tactic. Rival chip makers, denied patent licenses from Qualcomm, have fled the market while suppliers like Intel are struggling, the F.T.C. said.Apple, which sued Qualcomm shortly after the F.T.C.’s action, particularly objects to basing royalties on a phone’s total price. It says that formula means that Qualcomm earns more money as handset makers add innovations like displays, touch sensors and data storage unrelated to wireless technology.Qualcomm insists its business model has benefited consumers by helping to fund new innovations like the latest 5G wireless technology. It has responded with counterclaims that Apple and its manufacturing partners violated licensing contracts. Qualcomm has added a string of other court actions, including patent infringement suits against Apple in the United States, China and Germany.Qualcomm has so far persuaded courts in some countries, including China, to ban sales of some iPhones there, though Apple has dodged shipment disruptions, in part, by tweaking some of its software.The fight has also migrated to Washington. A little over a year ago, Qualcomm was spared a hostile takeover bid by Broadcom after the Trump administration blocked the deal on national security grounds. Qualcomm has raised the possibility that any court-ordered changes to its practices would threaten investments in wireless technologies that are critical to the American military and intelligence gathering. The chip maker also hired the opposition research firm Definers Public Affairs, which has distributed anti-Apple research to reporters.Many Qualcomm customers, partners and rivals are involved in the trial that starts on Monday. Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive; Philip Schiller, the company’s senior vice president of worldwide marketing; Qualcomm’s chief executive, Steven Mollenkopf, and its co-founder Irwin Jacobs could all be called to testify.One of the thorniest topics is whether Qualcomm’s royalty rates hurt consumers by raising smartphone prices. The F.T.C. contends they do, though it didn’t quantify the impact. Pricing is also at the heart of a separate private case against Qualcomm brought on behalf of smartphone purchasers, which seeks $5 billion in aggregate damages.Qualcomm insists its royalties have negligible effect in the mobile market, because competition is sharply reducing prices on many phones and new features have simultaneously pushed flagship models above $1,000. It is appealing a judge’s ruling granting class-action status in the consumer case.“It’s much easier to show harm in a shrinking market,” said David Reichenberg, an antitrust attorney at Cozen O’Connor who specializes in tech cases. “It’s not easy here.”The 11-day trial in January in the F.T.C. case featured testimony by several Apple executives and numerous internal emails from the companies.Apple, which shied away from Qualcomm chips for the first iPhones, was facing the prospect in 2006 of paying $12 to $20 in royalties per handset, Jeff Williams, Apple’s chief operating officer, testified at the trial. It wound up accepting a Qualcomm rebate that reduced the rate to $7.50 per device, as long as Apple agreed not to adopt a rival wireless technology, called WiMax, being promoted by Intel, he said.Apple began using Qualcomm chips for iPhones starting in 2011, after tense negotiations, Mr. Williams said. Apple managed to keep the $7.50 royalty rate as part of deals reached in 2011 and 2013, but the smartphone maker faced big financial penalties if it started using other chip suppliers.“We were staring at an increase of over a billion dollars a year on licensing,” Mr. Williams testified in connection with the 2013 deal. “We had a gun to our head.”Another Apple executive, Tony Blevins, testified that it began searching seriously for alternative suppliers in 2013. But Intel didn’t manage to win a share of Apple chip purchases until 2016.After legal hostilities began with Qualcomm the next year, Apple stopped paying patent royalties and Qualcomm stopped supplying chips for Apple’s newest iPhones — forcing Apple to ask Intel for a surprise increase in production, Mr. Williams said.Qualcomm has insisted that its royalty rates, rebates and exclusivity provisions are standard industry practices and had no effect on restricting competition.Companies like Nvidia, Texas Instruments, Broadcom and Marvell have stopped selling wireless modem chips. But Qualcomm noted that Intel and MediaTek are major suppliers to phone makers, while Samsung and Huawei provide chips for their own phones.“The F.T.C. failed to show harm to competition,” Robert Van Nest, Qualcomm’s lead trial attorney, said in closing arguments at the trial. “The evidence is simply overwhelming that Qualcomm earned its position and success through superior innovation and better products.”Follow Don Clark on Twitter: @donal888.Jack Nicas contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Maureen DowdOpinion ColumnistWASHINGTON — The heavens part. The light shines down. The rise in the oceans begins to slow. The world is once more bathed in the mystical glow of a messiah. Our redemption from Donald Trump is at hand.We have The One again, a New One — another lanky, bookish, handsome man with an attractive young family, a thin résumé, an exotic name, a hip affect, a rock star aura, an enticing smile, a liberal press corps ready to fluff his pillows and a frothing Fox News.Let Elizabeth Warren knock herself out with policy proposals. Let Kamala Harris be the adult in the room. Let Bernie Sanders bellow away.The magical man-boy, Beto O’Rourke, has come back from his 40 days in the desert — vlogging, contemplating, floating in and out of a funk — to share his gifts.He has given us the blessed news: “Man, I’m just born to be in it.” He told Vanity Fair that his words at a Texas campaign stop when he was trying to unseat Ted Cruz were pulled out of him “by some greater force,” musing: “Everything that I said, I was, like, watching myself, being like, How am I saying this stuff? Where is this coming from.”Annie Leibovitz advised Beto to wear a blue button-down shirt for her Vanity Fair cover shoot if he was going to run. And now we can hear, as Hillary Clinton noted sardonically about Barack Obama in 2008, “celestial choirs.”Beto floats above the fray, staying vague on nettlesome issues. The 46-year-old offers the politics of feelings.“I don’t have a team counting delegates,” he told Vanity Fair, adding, “It’s probably not the most professional thing you’ve ever heard about this, but I just feel it.”Joe Kennedy built his family’s political myth on good hair, white teeth and glossy star quality. Why shouldn’t Beto?After all, during his 2008 campaign, Obama merely went back to Chicago to see Malia perform in “The Odyssey.” Beto loved the epic so much, he thought about naming his son “Odysseus,” settling instead for “Ulysses.”Wandering alone, as Jesus, Barack and Beto did, is part of the hero’s journey defined by Joseph Campbell. Beto loves Joseph Campbell and “Star Wars,” which was inspired by Campbell’s work.The last One, about the same age when he jumped into national politics precociously aiming to usurp his elders, was also a uniter who went on an odyssey of self-discovery in New York while at Columbia.The last One also sold a cult of personality, offered himself as a symbol of modernity, sparked Oprah’s interest and had a preoccupation with being cool.Indeed, Obama told David Axelrod recently on “The Axe Files” that Beto reminded him of himself.The One anointing the New One. Joe Biden, pushed aside by Obama in the last election, was understandably irritated.Just as reporters once swooned when Obama made like Jay-Z and brushed imaginary dirt off his shoulder after a tough primary debate in Philly in 2008, reporters were entranced when O’Rourke air-drummed “Baba O’Riley” by the Who at a Whataburger drive-through after his debate with Cruz.To many, Beto’s appeal is his persona as a quasi-rebellious ’90s suburban teenager, a skateboarding punk rocker who seems to have modeled his campaign logo on the spicy ketchup logo at Whataburger.But others are less charmed. A satirical video on Twitter by skaters mocked “bad-skater Beto” as the kind of middle-school poser who “went to Zumiez and spent $27 on stickers.”In a new Reuters story, Joseph Menn reveals that while O’Rourke was still a teenager, he was a member of the Cult of the Dead Cow, a stealthy hacking group named after an old Texas slaughterhouse. A kind of Neo-lite, he used the handle “Psychedelic Warlord,” looking for free video games. (Socialist alert!)A hacker might be refreshing after a president who refers to Tim Cook as Tim Apple. Still, Menn writes, “it’s unclear whether the United States is ready for a presidential contender who, as a teenager, stole long-distance phone service for his dial-up modem, wrote a murder fantasy in which the narrator drives over children on the street, and mused about a society without money.”The 15th entry in the Democratic race is at the nexus of many tricky issues for a party desperate to oust Individual 1 from the White House.Is it better to nominate a celebrity like Obama with a slight record that cannot be targeted or someone with established credentials? Should the nominee spring from the far left, the vector brimming with electricity and fight, or is that suicidal in a national election?Can white men jump in, or is this post-#MeToo era the time when Democratic and independent women will demand a woman at the top of the ticket? Will Democratic voters longing for another Obama and the minority voters who strayed from Hillary want an African-American?Can pugilistic progressives stomach a rich kid like Beto at a time when the country is in an eat-the-rich mood? Will they tolerate candidates like Beto and Biden, who speak well of Republicans and have a history of working with them?As The Wall Street Journal reports, O’Rourke tried to please Texas Republican business leaders when he “opposed Obamacare, voted against Nancy Pelosi as the House Democratic leader and called for a raise in the Social Security eligibility age.”The fever is running high in his party. Will Beto turn out to be born for it or borne away by it?I invite you to follow me on Twitter (@MaureenDowd) and join me on Facebook.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook and Twitter (@NYTopinion), and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. OpinionRichard DormentOpinionDavid LeonhardtOpinionGail CollinsAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ceylan YeginsuLONDON — He had thought of everything: a home-cooked, candlelit dinner, a romantic playlist, a declaration of love and a ring.But when Tim Egerton, 27, got down on one knee and opened up a heart-shaped box to reveal a white sequin cast into plastic, he didn’t quite get the response he was hoping for.His girlfriend, Danielle Nichol, 26, froze.“Is that a toy,” she said she thought to herself, while trying to find words that would not offend him. “Is this a joke? Should I laugh?” (She wanted to cry.)Reading her agonized expression, Mr. Egerton jumped in with an explanation: “I want you to choose your own ring, this is just so I have something to put on your finger now.”With that, Ms. Nichol laughed with relief and then cried out of happiness as she said “yes” several times. Mr. Egerton later confessed that he didn’t have enough money for a real ring, but assured her that he was saving.The couple’s experience has apparently been widely shared in the last week, as more than 20,000 people have purchased the engagement ring from the discount store Poundland (the British equivalent of America’s Dollar Store). They come in four varieties, with stones resembling diamonds, topaz and rubies, and cost one pound, or about $1.30.The rings have prompted a flood of proposal posts on social media and television — the British presenter Piers Morgan jokingly proposed to his co-host, Susanna Reid, on air — and nearly as much commentary. While some women have dismissed the rings as tacky or insulting, others have welcomed them as a funny and spontaneous idea that allows women to participate in choosing the real ring.“We don’t need to spend thousands in order to tell someone we love them and want to commit,” said Kate Baxter, a jeweler designer and consultant, and the founder of The Cut London, a jewelry store. “A friend of mine was proposed to with a shell on the beach, then you can choose the perfect ring together.”“The notion that a man should spend three times his monthly salary is outdated, in my opinion,” she added. “The best advice is to save up until you can afford to pay for what you want, or make sure you can afford the repayments. If it’s enough to make you wince a little, that’s about right, but there’s no point in starting married life in loads of debt.”Poundland’s jewelry and Valentine’s buyer, Frances O’Sullivan, said that the rings’ acceptance by the public proves that the “one pound proposal is clearly a gem of an idea.”By Valentine’s Day, Poundland was almost sold out of the rings, but a spokesman said they would bring in new stock after Feb. 14 to meet the unceasing demand.Browsing the Valentine’s Day gift section at a Poundland store in London’s northern Kilburn neighborhood, Miriam Abati, a married mother of two, said she would have been mortified if her husband had proposed with a plastic ring.“Those rings are for children,” she said looking at a poster of the rings. “Your husband needs to give you a real ring to prove that he is a man.”Her friend, Joelle, chimed in. “You don’t buy an engagement ring the same place you buy your house cleaning products,” she said, laughing.As marriage proposals have modernized in recent years, men and women are increasingly opting to shop together for their rings to avoid expensive disappointments or mistakes, experts say.When Ms. Nichol announced her engagement to a group of her closest friends on WhatsApp, the first thing they asked after congratulating her was to see the ring.“That’s all anyone really cares about,” she said. “I was too embarrassed to send them a picture of the Poundland ring, but when I told them about it later they loved the idea and had so much respect for Tim,” she recalled. “Now they are helping me choose a real ring.”The Poundland rings have even found favor with older couples. Lizzie Bennetti, a 48-year-old former jeweler, was proposed to on the top of London’s Shard building last Saturday with a placeholder ring.“It was the last ring in Poundland and it was the topaz one, my birthstone,” she said in a phone interview. “It seemed like fate. It was meant to be.”Her boyfriend, Barry Fricker, 47, later gave her a real diamond ring that she said she loved.“As an ex-jeweler, I saw how much pressure it was for men to buy expensive rings,” Ms. Bennetti said. “There should be an affordable way, it’s the thought that counts.”A woman shopping at London’s Portobello Poundland branch disagreed.“Knowing my man, if I had to choose my own ring it would turn into a huge argument about money,” Martha Daly, 46, said. “It’s a bad idea, and I don’t think anyone would end up getting married after having to go through that process.”Follow Ceylan Yeginsu on Twitter: @CeylanWrites.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ben HubbardBEIRUT, Lebanon — A Saudi mobile application that lets men track and restrict the movements of women in the kingdom has come under increased scrutiny this week with an American senator and rights groups urging Apple and Google to remove it from their platforms, accusing the technology giants of facilitating gender discrimination.Saudi “guardianship laws” give women a legal status similar to that of minors in many areas of their lives. Every Saudi woman, regardless of age, has a male “guardian,” usually her father or husband, but sometimes her brother or son, who must give his permission for her to get a passport, have certain medical procedures or get married.The app in question, called Absher, was launched in 2015 by the Saudi government. It allows men to manage the women under their guardianship by giving or revoking their right to travel through airports, tracking them by their national identity cards or passports. The men can turn on notifications that alert them with a text message any time a woman under their guardianship passes through an airport.Absher, which roughly translates as “yes sir,” can be downloaded from both the Google Play store and Apple’s app store, which critics say makes the tech companies complicit in the repression of Saudi women.The effort to pull Absher from the platforms got a boost this week when Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, demanded as much in a letter to the two companies.“It is hardly news that the Saudi monarchy seeks to restrict and repress Saudi women, but American companies should not enable or facilitate the Saudi government’s patriarchy,” Mr. Wyden wrote in the letter, which was released on Monday.Addressing Tim Cook and Sundar Pichai, the chief executive officers of Apple and Google, Mr. Wyden said the companies were “making it easier for Saudi men to control their family members from the convenience of their smartphones and restrict their movement.”He requested that they prevent their companies from “being used by the Saudi government to enable the abhorrent surveillance and control of women.”Representatives of Apple and the Saudi government did not immediately respond to requests for comment. A Google spokesman confirmed that the company is assessing the app to determine if it is in accordance with its policies.Saudi Arabia has one of the world’s most restrictive environments for women, although the country’s de facto ruler, Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, has pushed to loosen some constraints since his father, King Salman, ascended the throne in 2015.Since then, the kingdom has eased restrictions on women’s dress, expanded the range of fields for women in the work force and begun offering physical education classes for girls in government schools. Last year, Saudi Arabia lifted a longstanding ban on female drivers, a move hailed as a major milestone.But critics say that Saudi women cannot achieve equality as long as the kingdom maintains its guardianship laws. Saudi officials argue that such restrictions are rooted in their culture and supported by many in the kingdom.When asked about the issue in an interview last year, Prince Mohammed said that Saudi Arabia had to “figure out a way to treat this that doesn’t harm families and doesn’t harm the culture.”Absher, which can be used by Saudi nationals and residents of the kingdom, more broadly is an online portal where both men and women can access a range of government services, from paying traffic tickets to applying for new identification cards. The controls on women are just one of its functions.The repression of Saudi women jumped into the headlines last month when an 18-year-old Saudi, Rahaf Alqunun, barricaded herself in a hotel room in the Bangkok airport to avoid being returned to her family. She had slipped away from her family during a holiday in Kuwait and boarded a plane for Thailand, but was stopped in the airport. She was later granted asylum in Canada.Another Saudi woman who had fled the kingdom for Australia described covertly using her father’s phone to access Absher and give herself permission to travel, allowing her to leave the country undetected.Human rights groups including Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch have long campaigned for guardianship laws to be repealed, but the targeting of Absher and its availability on Western tech platforms is new.Hala Aldosary, a Saudi scholar and activist based in the United States, said that the removal of the app by Apple and Google could send an important message to leaders like Prince Mohammed, who have sought out partnerships with global tech firms in efforts to enhance their economies.“If the tech companies would say, ‘You are being oppressive,’ that would mean a lot,” Ms. Aldosary said.But removing the app would not get rid of the country’s guardianship laws, she said, and men could still change their female relatives’ status online or in government offices.“The app is a means to an end, but it is not the end,” she said. “But it does make the lives of guardians easier.”When asked about Absher in an interview with National Public Radio on Monday, Mr. Cook of Apple said he had not heard of it.“But obviously we’ll take a look at it if that’s the case,” he said.But both companies have responded to similar campaigns to remove apps.In December, Apple removed a religious app from its online store that portrayed being gay as “a sickness” and “a sin” after a gay rights group campaigned against it, NBC News reported.Megan Specia contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with the safety fears raised after the crash of a Boeing jet, the details of President Trump’s proposed budget, and a pivotal Brexit vote today in Britain.At least 23 airlines have taken the Boeing 737 Max 8 out of service after the second crash involving the model in five months. The company stood by the plane’s safety but said that it planned software updates and was working on changes to flight controls and training guidelines. Here are the latest updates.The voice and data recorders have been recovered from the plane that crashed in Ethiopia on Sunday, but it could still take time to determine the cause of the crash that killed 157 people.Q. and A.: Southwest and American, the only U.S. airlines that use the 737 Max 8, said they would continue to fly the plane. Here’s what travelers should know. The details: The 737 Max is Boeing’s best-selling jet ever, with about 350 registered and thousands on order. The planes typically make more than 8,500 flights a week. These are the airlines that fly them. The president on Monday sent Congress a $4.75 trillion budget that includes a nearly 5 percent increase in military spending and an additional $8.6 billion for construction of a wall along the border with Mexico. The plan, the largest budget in federal history, also makes sharp cuts to domestic programs, including some that Mr. Trump has previously supported. The budget has little chance of passing in its current form, but it does offer a preview of the president’s re-election campaign priorities.Another angle: The waning stimulus from Mr. Trump’s 2017 tax cut and economic damage from his global trade war are undermining his oft-stated objective of increasing growth and reducing trade and budget deficits. Prime Minister Theresa May’s prospects of winning a critical vote today on Britain’s withdrawal from the European Union were dealt a severe blow when the attorney general, Geoffrey Cox, said that last-minute changes in her plan didn’t fundamentally alter the legal status of the agreement.Mr. Cox’s opinion is likely to be crucial in swaying the votes of pro-Brexit lawmakers.What’s next: We’ll have live coverage of the vote, which is expected around 3 p.m. Eastern. If her plan is defeated, Mrs. May has promised lawmakers a vote on whether Britain should leave without a deal, something that could upend the country’s economy. If they reject that, they would then vote on whether Britain should request an extension of its negotiations with Brussels. Britain is scheduled to depart the bloc on March 29.Yesterday: A protest by customs officers in France delayed Eurostar trains and backed up trucks for miles, providing a taste of a post-Brexit world.The Central American country, population 5 million, wants to wean itself from fossil fuels by 2050, an aspiration that scientists say other countries would need to share in some form if the world is to avert the direst consequences of global warming.How to pay for Costa Rica’s ambitions remains a question mark. But if its decarbonization strategy succeeds, it could provide a road map for others, especially developing countries. If it doesn’t work in a small, politically stable country, it would have equally profound consequences.Quotable: “If we can’t pull it off by 2050, it’s likely no other country can pull it off,” said one economist and climate adviser to Costa Rica’s government. “That would be really bad.”For decades, American museums have received gifts from donors inspired by philanthropic zeal, lucrative tax deductions and/or the prestige of seeing their works in esteemed settings. But there’s often no way to display more than a small fraction of the holdings, and the cost of climate-controlled storage is prohibitive. One of our arts reporters gauged the scope of the problem. The Indianapolis Museum of Art is ranking its works to decide what to sell or donate, and you can test yourself against the museum’s experts.Out of Venezuela: The U.S. is withdrawing its remaining diplomatic personnel from the embassy in Caracas because of worsening conditions in the country, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said today.Founder quits troubled charity: Juan Sanchez, the founder of Southwest Key Programs, resigned on Monday after family separations at the Mexican border brought intense scrutiny to the organization, the largest provider of shelters for migrant children. Southwest Key’s chief financial officer left last month after a Times article outlined allegations of mismanagement and possible malfeasance.New Trump-related inquiry: The New York attorney general’s office has issued subpoenas to two banks for records related to four Trump Organization projects and a failed effort to buy the Buffalo Bills football team.3,200 pounds of cocaine: An inspection of a container that arrived in Newark has uncovered one of the largest shipments of the drug ever seized in the New York City area.Snapshot: Above, in Iwaki, Japan, on Monday, the eighth anniversary of the earthquake and tsunami that killed around 16,000 people. The disasters also caused a meltdown at the Fukushima nuclear plant.Late-night comedy: President Trump said his reference last week to Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, as “Tim Apple” was a way to save time and words. “As we all know from his two-hour speeches, the president hates to waste time with words,” Jimmy Kimmel said. What we’re listening to: This playlist from NPR Music. Anna Holland, an editor based in London, says: “Every year, I look forward to the Austin 100 playlist, which highlights the best acts at the South by Southwest Music Festival. I always find something I love that I might never have heard otherwise.”  Cook: With spaghetti carbonara, the main goal is creaminess.Listen: The first Drake verse of 2019 heralds the coming of spring and, with it, the hope of new options on the horizon, writes Jon Caramanica. The rapper’s remix of Summer Walker’s “Girls Need Love” combines the tender and the tough.Watch: In Hulu’s “Pen15,” Anna Konkle and Maya Erskine play lightly fictionalized versions of themselves in seventh grade, surrounded by actual 13-year-old actors.See: Tori Sampson’s new Off Broadway play “If Pretty Hurts Ugly Must Be a _________” is a Critic’s Pick. It’s a contemporary fable about the black female body and its discontents.Smarter Living: Building a strong team requires treating co-workers with respect and accountability. If you say you’re going to do something, follow through — and expect the same of others.Also, we have tips from women and nonbinary D.J.s and performers on how to stay safe on the dance floor.Charles Boycott couldn’t buy food. He couldn’t find employees. He could hardly walk down the street in peace.Boycott, born on this day in 1832, wasn’t the first person shunned as a form of protest, but it’s his name that signifies the practice.In 1880, residents of County Mayo, Ireland, were facing potential famine after several failed harvests, and many could not pay their rent. Boycott, the land agent for a wealthy nobleman, was responsible for evicting those on his employer’s 40,000 acres.When he tried, the Irish National Land League suggested nonviolent protest. Boycott’s neighbors shunned him. Stores declined to serve him, his laborers quit and jeering mobs followed him.Boycott’s plight attracted international attention, including front-page articles in The New York Times.Boycott left Ireland, but his name remained, reportedly popularized by a priest who thought “ostracize” would confuse common people.Within months, The Times was using it to describe events elsewhere in the world.Fancy a trip to Vegas? In his latest dispatch, our 52 Places traveler has some tips.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Aodhan Beirne wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is the third part of our report about what to expect from the special counsel’s investigation.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Beethoven called him “the immortal god of harmony” (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The New York Times College Scholarship Program is financed by reader donations and an endowment fund. The 10 recipients for this year’s program will get up to $15,000 in financial assistance for every year of college, as well as mentoring and internship opportunities with The New York Times Company.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThings Editors LikeA roundup of things our editors — and a few contributors — are excited about in a given week.“A sketch of one of our coats almost looks like a children’s drawing,” says Camille Serra, the French designer at the helm of the new outerwear brand Kassl Editions. “It’s just very simple, graphic lines,” she adds. Launched last June in Amsterdam, the company has one clear mission: to reinterpret the classic fisherman’s coat with every collection. Founded by a team of fashion industry veterans — Ilse Cornelissens and Tim Van Geloven, founders of the concept store Graanmarkt 13 in Antwerp, Belgium, Bart Ramakers and Charlotte Schreuder of Parrot, an Amsterdam-based fashion agency, and Christian Salez, the former C.E.O. of Delvaux — Kassl prides itself on its minimalist approach.All Kassl coats have the same basic silhouette, inspired by a vintage fisherman’s coat. New editions are released a couple times a year in different colors and fabrics, sourced from Italy and Japan. The first edition offered a short A-line button-up mackintosh, which came in a buttery cream and a lacquered olive cotton, while for spring the brand proposes an oversize, elongated trench coat in powder pink and white. “The fashion system is crazy to keep up with,” says Cornelissens. “A sustainable way of changing the flow would be to make sure pieces come in at the right time, so they don’t end up in midseason sales.”The brand takes its name from Kassel, the city in central Germany where the line’s coats are made by a family-run factory that also manufactures outerwear for the German fire brigade. Minimally embellished and made from technical materials including oilcloth and rubber, the coats are built to last: velcro-fastening cuffs and sealed seams keep out wind and rain, while buttons are affixed with a metal ring to stop them from ever falling off. “Brands are offering too many stories today,” says Serra, who still wears her dad’s cashmere coat that predates the 1970s. “But you can play many different games with fabrics to bring diversity in a very simple idea. Focusing on just one thing is more radical.” kassleditions.com — GRACE COOKWithin Japan’s most stylish lifestyle shops and department stores, one simple cast iron pot has become a best-seller: Vermicular’s Musui-Kamado (which translates to waterless oven), a round lidded cooking vessel with an electric induction heating base. The Musui-Kamado, which will make its stateside debut next week, has earned its place among Japanese households not only for its streamlined aesthetic, but also for its ability to challenge what a single pot can do. It promises to eclipse the Dutch oven as a kitchen’s most valuable workhorse, adding the more technical tasks of sous-viding (no vacuuming required), proofing bread and fermenting to the usual roster of slow cooking, roasting, sautéing and baking.“We simply wanted more people to enjoy the natural flavors and true essence of ingredients,” says Tomo Hijikata, who co-founded Vermicular in 2010 with his brother, Kuni. They launched the Musui-Kamado in Japan in 2016 and now also carry oven-top pots in several sizes, along with accessories including organic cotton pot holders, magnetized wood trivets, recipe books and linen dish towels.Their goal was to design a pot that would optimize flavor profiles without the need for seasoning, sauces or even water. After three years and over 10,000 prototypes, the resulting 3.9-quart pot features a triple coating of cadmium-free enamel, a remarkably airtight seal and its namesake Vermicular graphite iron — a material that is difficult to manipulate but unmatched in its heat conductivity, lightness and durability. The Hijikata brothers practically grew up in their grandfather’s foundry, which once produced industrial dobby looms and sewing machines for Japan’s booming textile market. Vermicular was created, in part, to resuscitate the foundry after Japan’s recession in the ’90s, bringing work to the three generations of ironworkers that the Hijikatas refer to as “family.”Available for purchase on January 31 on Vermicular’s U.S. website, and shipping mid February, the Musui is the very definition of user-friendly. When paired with the precision Kamado base, adjustments can be made in 1ºF increments, and can go as low as 90ºF. Better yet, an illustrated touch-pad allows you to cook a specific strain of rice, poach eggs, roast pork loin, sous-vide pâté, or make yogurt with the touch of a few buttons. And the abbreviated color range of black, charcoal and off-white serves as a quiet reminder that when it comes to kitchen cook wear, less is always more. $300-$670 welcome.vermicular.us — MACKENZIE WAGONERIn a sense, the creative partnership between the Paris-based home wares brand Astier de Villatte and the Polish-French artist Balthus began in the 1960s. During that time, Balthus served as the director of Villa Medici, home to the French Academy in Rome, and the parents of the brand’s co-founder Benoît Astier de Villatte, who lived there as pensioners, befriended the artist. (Ivan Percoli, Astier de Villatte’s other co-founder, spent time in Rome as a child as well, and considered the villa’s garden “an occasional playground,” he says.) In recent years, the designer duo has grown closer to Setsuko Klossowska de Rola, Balthus’s widow, and their daughter Harumi, regularly traveling to the Grand Chalet in Rossinière, Switzerland, where the Klossowskas reside — a camaraderie that has now resulted in a pair of new products.“Harumi has been asking us for years to work on recreating the scent of her father’s studio, because, for her, it’s one of the most fabulous smells,” Percoli explains. Combining hints of turpentine, linseed oil, canvas, wood and tobacco (“Balthus was smoking all his life,” Percoli mentions), they came up with the Atelier de Balthus scented candle, packaged in a ceramic paint can. For Percoli and Astier de Villatte, another intriguing bit of Balthus lore is “Mitsou,” the book the artist made at age 11 about his cat (with a preface by the poet Rainer Maria Rilke). “We noticed that the many reprints that have been done since it was published in 1921 were not very faithful to the original,” Percoli says. In 2015, he and Astier de Villatte jointly acquired a printing press — among the last to use linotypes — and it is there that they’ve produced a reissue of “Mitsou” to perfectly match the first edition. Watch a short documentary on how the project came together. astierdevillatte.com and johnderian.com in the U.S. — HILARY MOSSBarring space travel or universal cataclysm, most of us will never get to experience the sensation of being swallowed by a Black Hole. But that doesn’t stop us from wondering: What would it feel like? What would it look like? And what would being swallowed by a black hole actually sound like? Those were a few of the questions dogging the filmmaker Eliza McNitt as she set out to create the three-part interactive virtual reality film “SPHERES,” which picked up the Grand Jury Prize for the Best Immersive Virtual Reality Experience at the Venice Film Festival last year — and which is on view now at Rockefeller Center.Executive produced by Darren Aronofsky, the three 15-minute episodes each take on a different element of space — inside an Oculus Rift headset, you fall into a black hole, skip on Saturn’s rings, and see Earth from the vantage point of a star — all scored with original music by Kyle Dixon and Michael Stein (of “Stranger Things”) and rendered in thrilling CGI. “My first virtual reality experience ‘Fistful of Stars’ showed the universe through the eyes of the Hubble Telescope,” McNitt told T in an email, referencing her 2017 film. “It was about everything in the universe we can see with our eyes. It led me to wonder what happens when we listen. Space is not silent. It’s actually full of sounds. For thousands of years we’ve looked to the stars to find our place in the universe but for the very first time we listen to its music.”The first episode, “Chorus of the Cosmos,” is narrated by Millie Bobby Brown, the second, “Songs of Spacetime,” by Jessica Chastain, and the third, “Pale Blue Dot,” by Patti Smith. “I’ve grown up with the voices of Carl Sagan and Stephen Hawking guiding me through the cosmos,” McNitt says. Now, she adds: “I wanted to hear the voices of three different generations of women tell me the story of science in the universe.” “Spheres” is on view through March 3 at Rockefeller Center, 600 Fifth Ave., rockefellercenter.com — ISABEL WILKINSONAn earlier version of “The Perfect Fisherman’s Coat,” the first item above, had multiple errors. The article misidentified the founders of Kassl Editions; they are Ilse Cornelissens, Tim Van Geloven, Bart Ramakers, Charlotte Schreuder and Christian Salez, not a 10-person team including Gijsje Ribbens and Merel van den Bergh. The article also misidentified when the brand was launched; it was last June, not September. The article referred incorrectly to the coat styles that Kassl offers. All Kassl coats have the same basic silhouette; there is not one new silhouette per collection. It also referred incorrectly to the frequency of new editions; there are a few editions per year, released at irregular intervals, not a new edition every three months. The article misspelled the given name of one of Kassl's founders; she is Ilse Cornelissens, not Isle. It also misspelled the name of a concept store in Antwerp; it is Graanmarkt 13, not Granmaarkt. And it mischaracterized Cornelissens's role in the founding of Graanmarkt 13; she was the store's co-founder, not its founder. Finally, the article misspelled the German city that is the brand's namesake; it is Kassel, not Kassl.Advertisement"
" The Snap chief said that he was “impressed” by Europe’s moves, and that there was still time to “course-correct” in the United States.At The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California, Evan Spiegel, Snapchat’s founder, said he was impressed with the privacy regulations enacted in Europe.CreditCreditMike Cohen for The New York TimesSupported byBy Katie RobertsonHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — With the continued pressure to regulate Silicon Valley, many wonder when, and how, the United States will act.Sam Altman, president of the start-up incubator Y Combinator, said the onus was on the government.“The idea that these companies who are not accountable to us or elected by us should get to decide sort of the new safeguards of society, that seems like the wrong way to do it,” Mr. Altman said last week at The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California. “I think we should let our — flawed as they may be — democratically elected and enforced institutions update the rules for the world.”He suggested restrictions around how user-generated content was amplified or distributed, as well as the classifications of hate speech or fake news.The United States has lagged behind its peers and has provided little regulation of the industry that is one of its biggest economic drivers.In January, leaders at the World Economic Forum in Davos pushed for more global oversight to limit the power of big tech. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan announced plans to use his country’s leadership of the Group of 20 nations this year to emphasize data governance.America’s own tech chiefs, including the Apple chief executive Tim Cook and executives from Facebook, Google and Microsoft, have lobbied for a comprehensive federal privacy law. Europe has enacted the world’s toughest rules on digital privacy with a sweeping law known as the General Data Protection Regulation.In a recent capitulation to the growing calls for a watchdog, the Federal Trade Commission announced Tuesday that it would create a task force to scrutinize tech giants. The F.T.C. is also said to be considering a multibillion-dollar fine for Facebook over privacy violations.Facebook’s very public reckoning recently has hastened the push for more regulation. The company is accused of, among other things, compromising privacy, harvesting user data, and allowing misinformation, propaganda and hate speech to spread, including during the 2016 presidential election. Also, the Times reported that its leaders covered up problems and targeted critics, enlisting an opposition-research firm to discredit naysayers.Mr. Altman defended Facebook’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, and its chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, saying the company was rapidly improving its practices. “Mark and Sheryl are extremely thoughtful people that have built one of the most important companies in human history. And I think they are listening,” Mr. Altman said.While Facebook and Twitter have taken plenty of hits for their approach to user data and social media, Snapchat, the disappearing-message app made by Snap Inc., has largely escaped the cascading criticism.Evan Spiegel, its founder, said Snapchat’s approach was different from that of its contemporaries, who are trying to police content.“We believe that just a small percentage of the content out there is really great content,” he said. “And so by focusing on that small amount of content and just not allowing really, you know, that longer tail of content creators to distribute content widely on our platform, we ultimately end up with a better content experience for our customers.”Mr. Spiegel linked the current climate for technology companies to the thinking in the Clinton administration around innovation at the beginning of the internet — an attitude of “we want people to mess around with it and to create wild new things, and because of that we don’t really think regulation is the right way to go.”“I think our society is now starting to understand how the internet works in a way that maybe they didn’t 20 years ago,” he said.But, Mr. Spiegel acknowledged, there was plenty of room to “course-correct.” He said he was “really impressed” with Europe’s moves, which he believed would inspire the next wave of privacy regulation.“I’ve found the European Commission to be very well-reasoned and thoughtful in their approach, and really putting consumers first,” Mr. Spiegel said. “The more that companies can align with the government to do what’s right for customers, I think everyone will win there.”He said the concern that regulating big tech would slow growth should be balanced with a consideration of America’s values.“The important thing in all of these debates is to, I think, offer at least the other side of economic progress, which may be the preservation of values that we care a lot about,” he said. “The real world and the internet are one and the same. They have a dramatic impact on one another. And that means that I think we need to be a little more thoughtful and deliberate about the products we’re creating and releasing widely.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Daisuke WakabayashiSAN FRANCISCO — A former senior lawyer at Apple who oversaw the company’s insider trading policies was himself accused of insider trading by federal prosecutors and securities regulators in complaints made public on Wednesday.The Securities and Exchange Commission said in a suit that Gene Levoff, a former senior director of corporate law and a corporate secretary at Apple, repeatedly traded on inside information from 2011 to 2016.The S.E.C. said Mr. Levoff violated insider trading laws three times from 2015 to 2016. On one occasion, Mr. Levoff sold roughly $10 million of Apple stock — nearly his entire holdings — from his personal brokerage account four days before Apple announced quarterly earnings on July 21, 2015.In a related action, federal prosecutors in New Jersey charged Mr. Levoff with one count of securities fraud in a criminal complaint.The company’s stock price fell 4 percent after the earnings report, in which Apple revealed it had fallen short of analysts’ estimates for iPhone sales.Mr. Levoff had already seen a draft of the announcement and avoided about $345,000 in losses by dumping his Apple shares before the official announcement, the S.E.C. said. But since the end of 2016, Apple’s share price has increased 47 percent.Kevin Marino, Mr. Levoff’s lawyer and a principal at the law firm Marino, Tortorella & Boyle, said he was reviewing the allegations against Mr. Levoff and looked forward to defending him.“Gene Levoff was a trusted Apple executive for many years, and has never before been accused of wrongdoing of any kind,” Mr. Marino said in a statement.According to the S.E.C., Mr. Levoff oversaw Apple’s corporate law group of 20 to 30 lawyers and paralegals. He was responsible for Apple’s compliance with securities laws and providing legal advice for the company’s S.E.C. filings and financial reporting. He also served as a corporate officer of every major Apple subsidiary.“As a member of the core group of senior Apple insiders entrusted with material nonpublic information, and as an attorney with a sophisticated understanding of securities and corporate law, Levoff knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that he had a duty of trust and confidence to the company and its shareholders,” according to the complaint filed in United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.The S.E.C. said he was placed on leave in July and fired in September.“After being contacted by authorities last summer, we conducted a thorough investigation with the help of outside legal experts, which resulted in termination,” an Apple spokesman, Josh Rosenstock, said in a statement.In an indication of how senior Mr. Levoff was at the company, he was part of Apple’s disclosure committee — a group that helps Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, and Luca Maestri, the chief financial officer, determine whether the company is meeting its responsibilities for providing accurate and timely disclosures to investors.At the time of his departure, Mr. Levoff reported to Katherine Adams, Apple’s general counsel. She replaced Bruce Sewell, who served as the company’s top lawyer for eight years until he stepped down in 2017.Mr. Levoff was responsible for ensuring compliance with Apple’s insider trading rules, including sending emails to individuals who were subject to trading restrictions around Apple’s quarterly earnings announcements. Apple’s insider trading policy said any individual with material, nonpublic information about the company was not allowed to trade the stock until 60 hours after that information had been announced.The S.E.C. said Mr. Levoff also engaged in insider trading on three other occasions from 2011 to 2012. In each instance, Mr. Levoff received draft news releases and S.E.C. filings. He then bought thousands of shares of Apple stock before the public announcement. Shortly after the stock rose on the positive earnings announcements, Mr. Levoff sold the shares. He made approximately $245,000 in profits on those insider trading transactions.Before those transactions, Mr. Levoff sent emails to company employees alerting them that a blackout period was starting and that they were prohibited from trading Apple securities.Follow Daisuke Wakabayashi on Twitter: @daiwaka.Matthew Goldstein contributed reporting from New York.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Sunday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)The week of the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum is a fire hose of news. Headlines, predictions, sightings and tidbits that months and years later are recognized as the flash point for much larger shifts and trends can often get overlooked.To help you sort through it all, we’ve put together this crib sheet of everything that we think was important that happened here in Davos. (Yes, I’m writing this from Davos on my way home.)Before we get into the substance, a couple of observations.The World Economic Forum has traditionally brought together the world’s top political and business leaders. But this year, the political leaders were largely absent — remaining in their home countries to handle crises largely of their own making (President Trump with the shutdown and Prime Minister Theresa May with Brexit).The surprise guest this year was Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, making his first appearance; it may be an indication of Apple’s increasing dependence on foreign markets for growth.The topic du jour (besides the shutdown) was a debate over where the global economy was headed. Chief executives professed confidence that their earnings would continue apace, while economists and investors talked about the prospect of a recession in 2020. And others, like Ray Dalio — and Seth Klarman, who did not attend, but whose annual letter was a constant talking point — worried about social unrest. Interestingly, Dr. Doom — Nouriel Roubini — was actually upbeat.A Chinese chief executive described his country’s economy as “ugly” — he used that world repeatedly — suggesting that the underlying foundation there was more fragile than most economists acknowledge. That could lead to weakness in China spreading to the rest of the world. And the general sense is that while the U.S. and China may reach a trade détente, we might be headed for a decades-long economic cold war.Larry Fink’s letter and the concept of E.S.G., shorthand for “environmental, social and governance,” got a lot of discussion this year — it felt like it might be a tipping point in the dialogue. European companies are still more interested in E.S.G. than U.S. companies, but it feels like a trend that isn’t going away. TPG’s Rise Fund started a new company, Y Analytics, to measure E.S.G. Bono, a board member of Rise, was on hand to talk about impact investing and to support his Red brand, which he started a decade ago in Davos (DealBook broke that story at the time) as well as his One franchise. Matt Damon was in town to raise money for his water.org, which is turning into a quite successful story (side note: Mr. Damon had to borrow a suit because his bag got lost by Swiss Air). Jane Goodall was also in Davos — and let me say that she is as nice as she is important. Even the Vatican sent a delegation to talk about conscious and inclusive capitalism.And Rebecca Blumenstein, the deputy managing editor of The New York Times, interviewed Bill Gates on Twitter about his work around the globe.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in Davos, Switzerland; Stephen Grocer in New York; and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The soap opera of tariff negotiations has riveted economists and executives: Will Beijing keep its promises? Will Washington cooperate?But the real drama is not about trade, but about technology, many in Davos have said. The brewing conflict could affect generations and disrupt the world order, according to Fred Kempe, the chief executive of the think tank Atlantic Council. He wrote:The growing danger is that the tech race could become the primary battleground in a struggle between democracy and autocracy — and between China and the U.S. The dangers of a technological Cold War, a zero-sum contest for global dominance that ultimately separates Chinese and U.S. tech sectors from each other and divides up the world, are increasing.What’s the worry? The billionaire George Soros said that artificial intelligence, when in the hands of authoritarian regimes, was a “mortal threat” to the world. He cited China, which is developing a social credit system that would use personal data to judge an individual’s trustworthiness, as an example. President Xi Jinping could eventually have “total control over the people,” making him “the most dangerous opponent of open societies,” Mr. Soros said.What do the Chinese think? The technology industry relies heavily on global interactions and is “probably suffering the most right now,” said Ken Hu, the deputy chairman of Huawei. The Chinese telecommunications company has been accused by multiple nations, including the U.S., of violating trade rules. Other players, such as the Chinese state-owned oil and gas company Sinopec, say they expect Chinese companies to scale back foreign investment — steps already taken by Alibaba and by GAC Motor. Last year, nearly 60 percent of Chinese C.E.O.s considered the U.S. to be the most important foreign market; this year, only 17 percent feel the same, according to one survey published this past week.Hope for resolution? Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said via video link that Washington was willing to play nice with Beijing if China pledged to protect intellectual property. At a dinner in Davos, a top Chinese regulator heard complaints from international business leaders about the ownership structure of state-owned enterprises and about the Made in China 2025 effort, which aims to take the lead in industries such as artificial intelligence and robotics.But China wants its space. Vice President Wang Qishan said in a speech that “it is imperative to respect national sovereignty and refrain from seeking technological hegemony.” He added:We need to respect the independent choices of model of technology management and of public policies made by countries, and their right to participating in the global technological governance system as equals.A recession may not be coming this year, but neither is a boom, Greg Ip of the WSJ writes.The International Monetary Fund downgraded its 2019 forecast for global growth to 3.5 percent. That’s a respectable number, he writes, but the world is struggling to sustain even that muted pace.The reason: The world cannot tolerate interest rates as high as it once did. The “neutral” interest rate — one that is high enough to contain inflation, yet low enough to avoid recession — is much lower than before.The underlying cause: As aging workers retire and birthrates drop, the labor force has grown more slowly. Productivity has also eked out smaller gains than in the past.The upshot: Central banks need to proceed carefully, because a little fiscal tightening goes a long way.More on the global economy: Ray Dalio, founder and chairman of the hedge fund Bridgewater, said he foresaw slower growth rates in the U.S. and Europe. France is sticking to a 1.7 percent economic growth forecast for 2019, the French finance minister, Bruno Le Maire, said. Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., warned against an overreliance on central banks, urging countries to strengthen their economies through fiscal and structural changes. In the absence of world leaders, the atmosphere was downbeat.Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez wasn’t in Davos this week. It just felt like she was.The New York representative’s proposal to impose a 70 percent tax rate on income above $10 million came up frequently among the uber-wealthy in attendance.In those elite circles, filled with people whose fortunes have soared in recent years, the idea was not popular.Michael Dell, the billionaire founder of Dell Technologies, is not a fan, for one. Scott Minerd, the chief investment officer of Guggenheim Partners, said the concept was “scary.” Glenn Hutchins, the chairman of North Island and a co-founder of Silver Lake Partners, suggested that it was an attempt to “score political points” and that it would probably be unsuccessful. Ken Moelis, the chief executive of the investment bank Moelis & Company, said it would be “disastrous for the economy.”Stephen Schwarzman, the billionaire chief executive of Blackstone, said he was “wildly enthusiastic” about Ms. Ocasio-Cortez’s pitch. (He was being sarcastic.)But as the economy slows and 2020 election talk surges, taxing the rich is a topic that will most likely continue to surface. Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts, a Democratic candidate for president, proposed a so-called ultramillionaire tax this week on the 75,000 wealthiest families in the country, including President Trump’s.Still, top earners would probably figure out how to sidestep such rules, Mr. Minerd said.The political pendulum is swinging. The conservatives found out they’re being held hostage by the extreme right. Now the Democrats are going to find out they’re being held hostage by the extreme left.Globalization had some powerful defenders in Davos, with world leaders imploring delegates not to abandon postwar principles of international integration.Several took jabs at the absent President Trump without mentioning him by name, criticizing his “America First” foreign policy and his habit of provoking trade disputes. The vice president of China, Wang Qishan, whose own country has been accused of running roughshod over foreign competitors and global business rules, nonetheless condemned “practices of the strong bullying the weak and self-claimed supremacy.”Carrie Lam, the chief executive of Hong Kong, said that certain countries were drifting from the multilateral framework of the past few decades.“If that is no longer the mainstream, we could be in trouble,” she said.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, who leads a country that is deeply reliant on international trade and increasingly surrounded by neighbors confronted by protectionist tendencies, urged Western powers to “act against the fragmentation of the international architecture.”She said that global organizations such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank should be reformed and that countries should embrace compromise. She added:I think we should understand our national interest in a way that we think about the interests of others, and from that create win-win situations that are the precondition for multilateralism.Shinzo Abe, the prime minister of Japan, pledged his country’s support for “the free, open, and rules-based international order.” He called on forum participants to “rebuild trust toward the system for international trade.”World leaders called for more regulation. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan said his country would push for a new international system for the oversight of data use.His proposal was echoed by others:• The South African president, Cyril Ramaphosa, said African Union leaders would discuss greater oversight of the tech sector at a meeting early next month.• Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany cited a need for the European Union to have a “common digital market.”• Vice President Wang Qishan of China also said that more international cooperation in regulating the market was required.Talk focused on global governance, data privacy and the impact of artificial intelligence, but there was no consensus on what approach to take. Some official sessions tried to put a positive spin on the effects of technological advances, but the optimism seemed out of step with public concern about the disruptive effect on privacy and politics.Tech leaders make the rounds: On his first trip to the forum, Tim Cook, the Apple chief executive, met with world leaders, including President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil and Dubai’s crown prince, Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum. Sheryl Sandberg, the chief operating officer of Facebook, acknowledged that her company needed to earn back the trust of the public. Microsoft’s chief executive, Satya Nadella, said that as facial recognition technology grew, he would “welcome regulation that will help the marketplace not be a race to the bottom.”Environmental issues took center stage, with world leaders and celebrities weighing in and new partnerships being formed. One of the biggest initiatives announced at the forum was an alternative recycling platform called Loop, which seeks to change the way consumers buy brand-name products.The concept: The project revives the milkman concept, in which products are delivered in reusable containers that are returned to the manufacturer.The partners: Some of the largest consumer goods companies — including Danone, Mars Petcare, Mondelez International, Nestlé, PepsiCo, Procter & Gamble and Unilever — are working together on the project as a way to limit waste.The pitchman: Tom Szaky, founder and chief executive of the recycling company TerraCycle, headed to Davos two years ago to meet with the leaders of packaged goods companies and push his big idea.Climate concerns dominated much of the discussion elsewhere at the gathering:• In an interview with Prince William, the naturalist David Attenborough took world leaders to task for waiting too long to address climate change.• Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand joined the chorus, urging her global counterparts to think about the role they play in addressing climate change, while Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan called for action on the issue.• The singer Bono poked fun at sustainable development goals, saying, “The S.D.G.s, it does sound like a sexually transmitted disease, doesn’t it?”• An expected drop in private jet traffic to Davos this year could be a sign that participants are taking the environmental impact of their travel more seriously.• Greta Thunberg, a 16-year-old climate activist from Sweden, gave a speech urging the global elite to protect the planet.• Forum participants seemed receptive to Saudi Arabia’s damage control campaign over the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. (Reuters)•The World Economic Forum hosts 3,000 official participants, but the population of Davos swells to 30,000 during the week. Here are the unaffiliated events, sessions and parties that drew celebrities like Matt Damon and Wyclef Jean. (CNBC)• The Bank of England is ready for Brexit and is disillusioned with Bitcoin, said its governor, Mark Carney. (Bloomberg)• Hundreds of protesters, some waving signs that read “Let them eat money,” complained that the elite participants at Davos cared more about the bottom line than about the state of the world. (AP)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byHow the Nanaimo bar, a three-layer no-bake treat from British Columbia, conquered a nation’s palate.By Sara BonisteelThe Canadian city of Nanaimo, in British Columbia, has been a scrappy outpost of the Hudson’s Bay Company, a coal mining center and a timber town. But its place in history may be forever entwined with its culinary namesake, one of the world’s sweetest treats.The Nanaimo bar (pronounced nuh-NYE-mo) is a three-layer no-bake square that for the last seven decades or so has been a steadfast source of comfort to Canadians at weddings and funerals, birthdays and bar mitzvahs. Across the country, you’ll find the sugary bars for sale at small-town gas stations and supermarkets, where they compete with Nanaimo bar baking kits. In 2017, the Tim Hortons restaurant chain created a filled doughnut with the flavors of the Nanaimo bar for the nation’s sesquicentennial, a nod to its status. Even its name is proudly Canadian.“I like to call it the Kardashian of Canadian desserts because really, if it had been named anything else, I don’t think it would have lasted,” said Lenore Newman, the author of “Speaking in Cod Tongues: A Canadian Culinary Journey.” “But it’s the Nanaimo bar, so of course people make it.”The square looks something like a geological cross section. Its base is sedimentary: coconut and chopped walnuts bound together by a buttery silt of cocoa and crushed graham crackers. A middle layer of yellow buttercream teeters on the brink of liquefaction. And its top crust of chocolate, hard and brittle, thaws like the Arctic tundra the longer it lingers at room temperature.“It’s that balance of sweetness and texture that makes it just so appealing, and it looks pretty,” said Anna Olson, a pastry chef and the host of the Food Network Canada show “Bake With Anna Olson.” “For the home cook, it’s an attractive dessert: It doesn’t look sloppy, it doesn’t look crafty.”The Nanaimo bar’s story begins with the so-called dainty recipes of the mid-20th century, treats engineered to be whipped up for unexpected company from pantry staples.“The base layer was one of these 1950s recipes that circulated among housewives in mill towns all around the British Empire,” said Dr. Newman, a geography professor at the University of the Fraser Valley, in British Columbia, who also noted that a New Zealand dessert, the caramel slice, has a similar base.Dr. Newman believes that the women of Nanaimo added the middle and top layers. The first mention that she and a student, Shea Wind, could find was in a 1953 recipe in The Vancouver Sun for London smog bars, which stated that they were also called Nanaimo bars. The use of custard powder — an instant custard mix, which was a pantry staple of the empire, devised for those with egg allergies — gave their new dainty its distinctive yellow belt.Around the same time, bakers in Canada’s prairie provinces were serving up a similar creation, also called the smog bar, which Jean Paré, 91, learned how to make from her mother, Ruby Elford, in Irma, Alberta, a town of 250 about 110 miles southeast of Edmonton.“I forget how many do’s I went to before I finally found that they were called Nanaimo bars by other people,” she said in a phone interview, using an old-fashioned term for a gathering.Mrs. Paré (pronounced Perry) is a well-known Canadian cookbook author whose “Company’s Coming” books have sold by the millions. She included Nanaimo bars in her first book in the series, “150 Delicious Squares,” in 1981. Before she wrote cookbooks, Mrs. Paré catered events. Nanaimo bars were almost always on the dessert-square tray, which would make an appearance anytime a sweet snack was required, often at the “midnight lunch” served after the dinner and dancing at Albertan wedding receptions. “I didn’t have to bake them, and they froze so well,” she said.Only once, she said, did she decide to sub out the Nanaimo bar, and people asked for them by name: “So that was the last time I ever tried that.”Susan Mendelson was a university student in Vancouver in the 1970s when she started making the bars and selling them at a local theater, using a recipe from a classmate. They were a hit, and she opened a catering company, the Lazy Gourmet, with a friend. She published the basic recipe in her first cookbook, “Mama Never Cooked Like This,” and variations in subsequent ones, including the official cookbook of the 1986 world’s fair in Vancouver, which Dr. Newman credits with helping to spread the bar’s fame. Ms. Mendelson’s version of the bar was so good that the novelist Margaret Atwood included it in her “Canlit Foodbook,” which compiled writing and recipes from Canadian authors. And the city of Nanaimo finally took notice of its well-traveled square. A mascot, Nanaimo Barney, turned up at public functions, and a contest was held in the 1980s to find the ultimate Nanaimo bar recipe. Joyce Hardcastle, a widow with two children, pulled a recipe, provenance unknown, from her recipe box and decided to enter Nanaimo’s contest. Allergic to walnuts, she swapped in almonds. And she made the bars with European-style unsalted butter, rather than the salted butter that was often used. “I really think that the city didn’t want peanut butter in them, or mint or liqueur,” Ms. Hardcastle said. “I think they just wanted something basic, and that’s what I did — the really basic Nanaimo bars — and that’s what won, to my surprise.”She has since sold tea towels and aprons printed with her recipe, and has made so many bars that she can tilt her baking pan so the molten chocolate forms a topping as smooth as freshly Zambonied ice.Nanaimo, for its part, has designated local restaurants and cafes where people can try the bars, in the spirit of the food-tourism trails that two regions in Ontario have created for that other signature Canadian dessert: the butter tart.Despite all the variations on the Nanaimo bar — versions exist made with peanut butter, mocha and cranberry — there are still rules to be followed, said Ms. Olson, the pastry chef.“You’re allowed to change it and alter it, but you still have to respect the crust, filling, chocolate topping,” she said. “You can still call it a Nanaimo bar by changing up the flavors.”The buttercream takes well to flavorings, and you can experiment with the nuts in the base layer. (Though Ms. Atwood, a purist, prefers walnuts.) If you do change up the nuts, you want a tender choice, like almonds or pecans. “A hazelnut might show its texture and be too crunchy,” Ms. Olson said.Custard powder may be one reason the Nanaimo bar hasn’t spread farther south. While it is available online and at some specialty stores in the United States, it remains a relatively obscure ingredient to Americans. Some recipes say instant vanilla pudding can be used as a substitute, but that makes the buttercream clumpy, and the finished bar lacks that essential yellow hue.“I have a container of Bird’s Custard Powder that sits in my pantry because its only function is for Nanaimo bars,” Ms. Olson said. “I wouldn’t use it for anything else. I make my own custard for any other situation.”Recipe: Nanaimo BarsFollow NYT Food on Twitter and NYT Cooking on Instagram, Facebook and Pinterest. Get regular updates from NYT Cooking, with recipe suggestions, cooking tips and shopping advice.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhite House MemoBy Katie RogersWASHINGTON — He prefers Sharpies over email. His aides cart around cardboard boxes of work papers — not laptops — for him to sift through on Air Force One. On pressing technology matters, including drones at the border, clean energy and, most recently, the evolution of airplane engineering, he prefers a nonscientific approach.In short, President Trump often operates on the theory that older is better.“Airplanes are becoming far too complex to fly,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter on Tuesday, sharing his views on the still-unconfirmed cause of an Ethiopian Airlines plane crash last weekend that killed all 157 people on board. “Pilots are no longer needed, but rather computer scientists from MIT. I see it all the time in many products. Always seeking to go one unnecessary step further, when often old and simpler is far better.”At a time when experts are citing a serious need to bolster the nation’s infrastructure and science initiatives to remain globally competitive, Mr. Trump has long used partisan language to encourage his supporters to follow him in embracing a 1950s Rockwellian approach to technology.In his continuing crusade to build a wall along the country’s southwestern border, for instance, Mr. Trump dismissed the idea of drones to secure the border. He wanted a wall, an ancient technology he has said never fails, much like its Mesopotamian cousin, the wheel.“The fact is there is nothing else’s that will work,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter in December, “and that has been true for thousands of years. It’s like the wheel, there is nothing better.”Mr. Trump added, “I know tech better than anyone.”But it is a tactic that current and former administration officials said overshadowed efforts that in any other universe would look a lot like bipartisanship: Mr. Trump, they say, has privately committed to expansions of several technological initiatives that were hatched in the Obama White House, including revamping the government’s technology system and digitizing health care records.Not that this is evident when Mr. Trump addresses the public. He tends to frame the willingness to embrace technology as a partisan issue, which his fans lap up. His mocking examination of wind power led to laughter from a crowd at the Conservative Political Action Conference this month.“When the wind stops blowing, that’s the end of your electric,” Mr. Trump said before mimicking a man trying to watch TV: “‘Darling, is the wind blowing today? I’d like to watch television, darling.’”His theatrical approach tends to dazzle fans, but it has alarmed experts who worry that the president’s analog behavior has failed to signal to Americans which technological ideas they should be excited about — or which they should be worried about — as global competitors, including China, pour money into technology initiatives like the race to master artificial intelligence.“It doesn’t put the best face forward for the United States to have a president talking that way,” Darrell West, the director of the Center for Technology Innovation at the Brookings Institution, said in an interview. “It makes us look like we’re not a scientifically literate country.”Cristin Dorgelo, who was chief of staff in the White House’s Office of Science and Technology Policy under President Barack Obama, said a commander in chief was supposed to be the nation’s most effective intermediary between the public and the science and technology communities.Mr. Obama, she pointed out, edited an issue of Wired magazine and was notorious for imbibing detailed memorandums on technology policy.“I think that we have a problem where there are people doing good work inside of the building to advance policy on technology issues,” Ms. Dorgelo said, “but a president who at the same time does not ground his remarks about science and technology in fact and in evidence.”It’s not as if Mr. Trump dismisses all technology in his public life. He likes hobnobbing with technology executives at the White House, like Tim Cook of Apple (although he called him “Tim Apple”), and has masterfully re-engineered the presidential Twitter account to serve as his e-bully pulpit. Aides say he is also adept at using his DVR systems to record television shows. Mr. Trump, after all, believes TiVo is “one of the great inventions of all time.” Mr. Trump has also used an executive order to establish a national strategy for artificial intelligence and another to develop a strategy to lead the world in fifth-generation, or 5G, cellular networks. (Mr. Trump remarked recently on Twitter that 6G would be even better.)“The Trump administration has been laser-focused on an ambitious national tech policy agenda that drives innovation and American leadership in emerging technologies like artificial intelligence, 5G networks and quantum computing,” Michael Kratsios, the deputy assistant to the president for technology policy, said in a statement. “The president cares deeply about ensuring these technologies are developed by American innovators, built by American workers and reflect American values and priorities.”Some experts are concerned that the commitment is little more than lip service. Mr. West, from Brookings, said the White House established an A.I. policy a year and a half after China announced that it planned to create an A.I. industry worth $150 billion to its economy by 2030.“It’s too little, too late,” Mr. West said. “If you’re not funding a major initiative, agencies are not going to take it seriously.”But Aneesh Chopra, who was Mr. Obama’s chief technology officer, said in an interview that in other matters there was a “surprising alignment on a number of key areas” where the Trump White House has worked to expand a blueprint left by predecessors.“I may strongly disagree with the president’s views of health care reform,” Mr. Chopra said, “but I am pleased with the president’s commitment to build on progress on the long-term technical foundation of what we refer to as a health care internet.”Mr. Chopra and several of the president’s aides credited Jared Kushner, the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, with pushing Mr. Trump to recognize the importance of some of those efforts.A key to getting Mr. Trump to respond to technological efforts, several of his advisers said, is to frame the pitch in cost-saving and customer-service terms. During a 2017 meeting to get him on board with revamping government technology systems, a project Mr. Kushner championed after helping establish the Office of American Innovation, aides said they told Mr. Trump the effort could save billions.After asking his aides what Americans would see if the systems to apply for farming loans or veterans health care benefits were redesigned, Mr. Trump eventually approved the effort. But Mr. Trump said at the time that he knew he would never get credit for it, according to two people familiar with his remarks.After all, this is the same president who said the Navy should get rid of an electromagnetic catapult system on a new aircraft carrier and replace it with an old one that used steam.“They have digital,” Mr. Trump told Time magazine in 2017. “What is digital? And it’s very complicated; you have to be Albert Einstein to figure it out.” The Navy, Mr. Trump said, told him it had to stay with digital. “I said, ‘No you’re not,’” Mr. Trump recounted. He added that the Navy had to switch to “goddamned steam; the digital costs hundreds of millions of dollars more money, and it’s no good.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressToday in HistoryToday is Saturday, April 20, the 110th day of 2019. There are 255 days left in the year.Today's Highlight in History:On April 20, 1999, the Columbine High School massacre took place in Colorado as two students shot and killed 12 classmates and one teacher before taking their own lives.On this date:In 1898, the United States moved closer to war with Spain as President William McKinley signed a congressional resolution passed the day before recognizing Cuban independence and authorizing U.S. military intervention to achieve that goal.In 1914, the Ludlow Massacre took place when the Colorado National Guard opened fire on a tent colony of striking miners; about 20 (accounts vary) strikers, women and children died.In 1938, ""Olympia,"" Leni Riefenstahl's documentary about the 1936 Berlin Olympic games, was first shown in Nazi Germany.In 1948, United Auto Workers president Walter P. Reuther was shot and seriously wounded at his home in Detroit.In 1971, the Supreme Court unanimously upheld the use of busing to achieve racial desegregation in schools. National Public Radio made its on-air debut with live coverage of a U.S. Senate hearing on the Vietnam War.In 1972, Apollo 16's lunar module, carrying astronauts John W. Young and Charles M. Duke Jr., landed on the moon.In 1977, the U.S. Supreme Court, in Wooley v. Maynard, ruled 6-3 that car owners could refuse to display state mottoes on license plates, such as New Hampshire's ""Live Free or Die.""In 1986, following an absence of six decades, Russian-born pianist Vladimir Horowitz performed in the Soviet Union to a packed audience at the Grand Hall of the Tchaikovsky Conservatory in Moscow.In 1988, gunmen who had hijacked a Kuwait Airways jumbo jet were allowed safe passage out of Algeria under an agreement that freed the remaining 31 hostages and ended a 15-day siege in which two passengers were slain.In 1992, the Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert for AIDS Awareness took place at London's Wembley Stadium. Comedian Benny Hill died in his Greater London flat at age 68.In 2003, U.S. Army forces took control of Baghdad from the Marines in a changing of the guard that thinned the military presence in the capital.In 2010, an explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil platform, leased by BP, killed 11 workers and caused a blow-out that began spewing an estimated 200 million gallons of crude into the Gulf of Mexico. (The well was finally capped nearly three months later.)Ten years ago: In Geneva, the United Nations opened its first anti-racism conference in eight years; dozens of Western diplomats walked out as Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad (ah-muh-DEE'-neh-zhahd) called Israel the ""most cruel and repressive racist regime."" (Nine countries, including the United States and Israel, were already boycotting the conference.) Medical student Philip Markoff was arrested in the death of Julissa Brisman, a masseuse he'd met through Craigslist and whose body was found in a Boston hotel. (Markoff, who also was accused of robbing two other women, took his own life while in jail in August 2010 as he awaited trial in Brisman's death.)Five years ago: Pope Francis made an Easter Sunday plea for peace and dialogue in Ukraine and Syria, for an end to attacks against Christians in Nigeria and for more attention to the hungry and neediest close to home. Rubin ""Hurricane"" Carter, the boxer whose wrongful murder conviction in New Jersey became an international symbol of racial injustice, died in Toronto at age 76.One year ago: U.S. health officials told consumers to throw away any store-bought romaine lettuce and warned restaurants not to serve it amid an E. coli outbreak that had sickened more than 50 people in several states. Wells Fargo agreed to pay $1 billion to federal regulators to settle charges stemming from misconduct at its mortgage and auto lending businesses; it was the latest punishment levied against the banking giant for widespread customer abuses. The Democratic Party filed a lawsuit accusing the Donald Trump presidential campaign, Russia, WikiLeaks and Trump's son and son-in-law of conspiring to undercut Democrats in the 2016 election by stealing tens of thousands of emails and documents.Today's Birthdays: Retired Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens is 99. Actor Leslie Phillips is 95. Sen. Pat Roberts, R-Kan., is 83. Actor George Takei is 82. Singer Johnny Tillotson is 81. Actor Ryan O'Neal is 78. Bluegrass singer-musician Doyle Lawson (Quicksilver) is 75. Actress Judith O'Dea is 74. Rock musician Craig Frost (Grand Funk; Bob Seger's Silver Bullet Band) is 71. Actor Gregory Itzin (iht-zihn) is 71. Actress Jessica Lange is 70. Actress Veronica Cartwright is 70. Actor Clint Howard is 60. Actor Crispin Glover is 55. Actor Andy Serkis is 55. Olympic silver medal figure skater Rosalynn Sumners is 55. Actor William deVry is 51. Country singer Wade Hayes is 50. Actor Shemar Moore is 49. Actress Carmen Electra is 47. Reggae singer Stephen Marley is 47. Rock musician Marty Crandall is 44. Actor Joey Lawrence is 43. Country musician Clay Cook (Zac Brown Band) is 41. Actor Clayne Crawford is 41. Actor Tim Jo is 35. Actor Carlos Valdes (TV: ""The Flash"") is 30.Thought for Today: ""Life is made up of desires that seem big and vital one minute, and little and absurd the next. I guess we get what's best for us in the end."" — Alice Caldwell Rice, American humorist (1870-1942).Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe Arnault and Pinault families were among those who said they would devote resources and skills to the restoration of the cathedral, a symbol of French identity.By Vanessa FriedmanIn the aftermath of the fire at Notre-Dame, one of the great symbols of France, the luxury industry — another symbol of the country, thanks to names such as Dior, Louis Vuitton and Saint Laurent — has pledged hundreds of millions of euros to the cathedral’s restoration. The donations were followed on Tuesday by other pledges that soon surpassed 850 million euros, or about $960 million, and included beauty, energy, technology and finance companies as well as private individuals.On Monday, as Notre-Dame burned and flames lit the sky, the Pinault family — owners of Kering, the second-largest luxury group in France — was the first to publicly offer a significant contribution, pledging to donate €100 million to the rebuilding effort.[Black churches destroyed by arson saw a surge in donations after the Notre-Dame fire.]“The Notre-Dame tragedy strikes all French people, as well as all those with spiritual values,” said François-Henri Pinault, chairman of Artémis, the family holding company that controls Kering.“Faced with this tragedy, everyone wishes to bring this jewel of our heritage back to life as soon as possible,” he added. “Today, my father and I have committed to donate €100 million from the Artémis fund to take part in the effort needed to fully rebuild Notre-Dame de Paris.” Shortly afterward, the Arnault family and LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, led by Bernard Arnault, the richest man in France, announced that they would give €200 million.“The LVMH Group puts at the disposal of the state and the relevant authorities all of its teams — including creative, architectural and financial specialists — to help with the long work of reconstruction and fund-raising, which is already in progress,” they said. LVMH is the largest luxury group in the world. Its fashion holdings include Celine, Dior, Givenchy and Louis Vuitton. The group also owns drinks brands including Moët & Chandon, Dom Pérignon and Veuve Clicquot, as well as the landmark Parisian stores Le Bon Marché and La Samaritaine. The group reported revenue of €46.8 billion in 2018. Mr. Arnault was an early supporter of Emanuel Macron’s presidential bid, and Brigitte Macron, the French first lady, wears Louis Vuitton for most of her high-profile public events. Mr. Arnault also masterminded the Fondation Louis Vuitton, the contemporary art museum in the Bois de Boulogne designed by Frank Gehry that has helped reshape the landscape of Paris and that will ultimately become a gift to the city.For its part, Kering owns luxury brands such as Balenciaga, Boucheron and Yves Saint Laurent. The Pinault family — also among the richest in France — owns the wine estate Château Latour. The group’s 2018 revenues were €13.67 billion. François Pinault, the patriarch of the family that controls Kering, is building a contemporary art museum in the former Bourse de Commerce in the center of Paris that will be designed by the architect Tadao Ando. François-Henri Pinault, Mr. Pinault’s son, is married to the actress Salma Hayek. Kering has its headquarters in Paris, and Ms. Hayek posted a message of condolence and support on Instagram after the fire. “As many others I’m in deep shock and sadness to witness the beauty of Notre-Dame turn into smoke,” she wrote. “I love you Paris.”The two fashion groups are deeply embedded and invested in the heritage of France as a global beacon of beauty and artistic creativity, a tradition that is also carved into the stones of Notre-Dame.In recent years, the luxury industry across Europe has become actively involved in restoring historic monuments. The Italian leather goods group Tod’s is underwriting the restoration of the Colosseum in Rome for €25 million. Fendi, which is owned by LVMH, paid €2 million toward the restoration of the Trevi Fountain in the Italian capital (the company held a fashion show there when it was completed). Bulgari, a jewelry brand also under the LVMH umbrella, spent €1.5 million on the Spanish Steps in the city. And Salvatore Ferragamo, an Italian luxury goods company, has supported the Uffizi Gallery in Florence.The motives are both altruistic — supplying funds that local governments do not have in the interests of saving a joint inheritance — and self-interested — the companies clearly understand that the more closely they associate with masterpieces of history, the more they bask in their glow.In addition, when it comes to Notre-Dame, donors will benefit from a hefty tax write-off. Individuals in France can get a 66 percent discount on charitable gifts, while companies can deduct 60 percent of their corporate sponsorship expenses — which would most likely include assistance to the cathedral — from their corporation tax, though the amount is capped at 0.5 percent of turnover.However, on Wednesday the Pinault family issued a public statement saying they would not take any tax deductions for their donation. “For the Pinault family, there is no question of French taxpayers having to bear the cost of such a deduction,” they declared.The gifts from the likes of the Arnaults and the Pinaults are a reflection of how personally, and how profoundly, the fire has reached into the identity of French citizens and their businesses. Indeed, just after the announcement from LVMH, Patrick Pouyanné, the chief executive of the French energy company Total, said on Twitter that his firm would contribute an additional €100 million to the cause, and L’Oréal and the Bettencourt-Schueller Foundation, which is backed by the family that founded the cosmetics giant, pledged a total of €200 million. Offers of aid in the reconstruction effort also came from the bank Société Générale (€10 million) and Crédit Agricole (€5 million, via their foundation) and the advertising firm JCDecaux (€20 million), while the tire maker Michelin also promised a large sum and the construction giant Vinci offered to provide workers and architects. Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, said on Twitter they wold also donate to the cause, though the company has not yet specified how much. Other donors include Sanofi, Axa, and Capgemini. Their legacy will now be part of Notre-Dame’s future.Liz Alderman contributed reporting.Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.  @VVFriedman Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a look at Israeli elections, a record seizure of pangolin scales and a remarkable rail journey through the Horn of Africa.A court is expected to rule today in the case of nine activists facing public nuisance charges over months of large pro-democracy protests in Hong Kong in 2014, symbolized by the umbrellas many protesters carried. The charges carry a maximum penalty of seven years in prison.Three of the activists were founders of Occupy Central With Love and Peace, one of the main groups that urged a sit-in and demanded changes to Hong Kong’s electoral system.Background: Hong Kong was a former British colony that returned to Chinese rule in 1997 under a “one country, two systems” arrangement that allowed it more robust civil liberties than the mainland. The semiautonomous city had hoped to eventually be able to elect its leader directly, and restrictions set out by Beijing sparked the protests.Impact: The government has prosecuted 266 people in connection with the protests so far, with 118 convictions.Prime Minister Theresa May’s government met with officials from the opposition Labour Party to resuscitate stalled talks over a compromise plan for Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U., which is currently scheduled to take place on Friday.Over the weekend, Mrs. May suggested that a compromise could be worked out around immigration from the E.U., which could pave the way for maintaining close economic ties with the bloc.What’s next: The prime minister is expected to seek another Brexit extension from European leaders on Wednesday.Some French officials expressed reluctance to grant her the delay unless she had a new plan with “credible political backing” in hand.A day after the U.S. homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, resigned, the president expected the departure of the director of the Secret Service, the head of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and the department’s general counsel.The exodus appeared to be part of an effort by the president to clear out the department and steer it in a “tougher” direction.However, many immigration policy changes require congressional approval.Visas: The federal government wants to issue more visas for foreign workers to take temporary jobs in housekeeping, landscaping and other fields, even as Mr. Trump threatens to seal the border with Mexico, where most of those workers come from.The country heads into a parliamentary election today with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, one of the country’s longest-serving leaders, facing stiff competition from a new rival, Benny Gantz, a former army chief.Mr. Netanyahu has overseen healthy economic growth but this time charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust have loomed over his campaign.Political bombshell: Over the weekend, Mr. Netanyahu pledged that, if re-elected, he would extend Israel’s sovereignty over the West Bank, an apparent last-ditch attempt to woo right-wing voters.The West Bank is home to 2.6 million Palestinians. If Mr. Netanyahu carried out his promise, it could end any possibility of a two-state solution.Iran: In a move that could give Mr. Netanyahu a boost, President Trump designated an arm of the Iranian military — the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps — as a foreign terrorist organization, the first time the U.S. has made such a declaration about part of a government. Our reporter got aboard a new train service from Ethiopia’s capital, Addis Ababa, to the Djibouti coast, part of a planned network that, with China’s help, is meant to eventually span 3,000 miles.But even the existing segment offers a voyage of many discoveries.Singapore: More than 14 tons of pangolin scales have been discovered in what conservation specialists called the largest such seizure of a single shipment worldwide. Pangolins, a type of scaly anteater, are believed to be the most frequently illegally trafficked mammal in the world.Japan: Roman Catholic bishops plan to conduct a nationwide survey on sexual abuse of children by members of the clergy, church officials said on Monday.Maldives: The party of the president, Ibrahim Mohamed Solih, appeared to have won decisively in parliamentary elections over the weekend. The result may help him restore political freedoms in the country, which has an authoritarian past, and some believe he could also push back against China’s growing influence in the archipelago.Britain: The government has proposed sweeping powers to fight the online spread of violent and extremist content, false information, and harmful material aimed at children in one of the world’s most aggressive plans to regulate the internet.Snapshot: Above, a gunsmith in the Philippines crafting a pistol. Illegal gun making in the city of Danao took off in the 1960s and the trade has contributed an estimated two million unregistered guns in the country.What we’re reading: This Medium collection of interviews with writers about how they paid the bills while they wrote their books. Concepción de León, a staff writer for our Books section, recommends it, saying, “Reading about the jobs these writers worked — librarian, paramedic, apartment building superintendent — lifts the veil on the labor that made possible our favorite stories, aside from the labor of writing them.”Cook: Spicy sausage and sweet butternut squash are a perfect match for a sheet-pan dinner. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)Watch: “Dumbo,” Tim Burton’s live-action remake of the Disney tale about an airborne baby elephant, “takes a turn toward the fascinatingly weird,” our critic writes.Read: A history of the moon landing 50 years later and a new novel from Sally Rooney are among the 10 books to watch for this month.Listen: “Old Town Road,” the viral hit by the rapper Lil Nas X that set off a debate about what is, isn’t or might be country music, is the focus of our pop music podcast.Smarter Living: The kitchen-wear entrepreneur Ellen Bennett organizes her kitchen like a professional chef, to keep from having to hunt around for ingredients and tools. Her method can work for you. Separate cookware by four main functions: prep, cook, serve, store. Date and label spices, and store them in transparent containers. And good knife skills can replace any number of gadgets.And we also have guidance on securely mount your flat-screen TV.Lately, leggings have become a cultural lightning rod. But a new retrospective of the British designer Mary Quant reminds us of an earlier fashion flash point: the miniskirt revolution.Ms. Quant, a trailblazer of Swinging Sixties fashion, famously said she “didn’t have time to wait for women’s lib.” Her higher-than-high hemlines insisted on young women’s right to bare their legs.She named her trademark skirt after her favorite car, the original Mini Cooper.Pieces of clothing resembling miniskirts have been identified by archaeologists as far back as the 1300s B.C., but it wasn’t until the mid-20th century that the mini really took off. Staying true to the Hemline Index (whereby skirt hemlines rise along with stock prices), the miniskirt perfectly captured 1960s London. The trend has followed a boom-and-bust cycle ever since.Bans on short skirts are enforced in several African countries, however, and wearing a mini can prompt outrage — and even criminal arrest — in parts of the Middle East.That’s it for this briefing. And today, take some inspiration from “Dumbo”: Don’t just fly, soar.— AlishaThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Elizabeth Paton, our Europe-based Styles reporter, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode is about Russia’s campaign of state-sponsored assassinations.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Something raised during a toast (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times’s article about the controversy over leggings drew more than 1,800 comments from readers. We translated the article into Chinese: 阅读简体中文版•閱讀繁體中文版.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — For months, President Trump has been railing about the urgent need for a wall to protect against what he calls “an invasion” of illegal immigrants flooding across the southwestern border. But he has also been delivering another message: “We need workers,” he told a group of activists recently.In other words, he wants more immigrants.“I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally,” Mr. Trump ad-libbed last month during his State of the Union address.Comments like those from the president have ignited furious criticism from his hard-line, anti-immigrant supporters who accuse him of caving to demands for cheap foreign labor from corporations, establishment Republicans and big donors while abandoning his election promise to protect his working-class supporters from the effects of globalism.“This is clearly a betrayal of what immigration hawks hoped the Trump administration would be for,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates cutting legal immigration by more than half. He warned that Mr. Trump was in danger of being “not even that different from a conventional Republican.”Breitbart News, a conservative website that promotes anti-immigrant messaging, published on Thursday the latest in a series of articles attacking Mr. Trump for catering to big business at the expense of the Americans who put him in the Oval Office. “Trump Requests ‘More’ Foreign Workers as Southern Border Gets Overrun,” the site blared on its home page.“That Mr. Trump would advance the interests of the global elite ahead of our citizens would be a tragic reversal on any day,” Lou Dobbs, the Fox Business Network host, said in a televised rant against the president on Wednesday evening. “The White House has simply lost its way.”Corporations and influential corporate conservatives such as Charles G. Koch and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have long urged the president to help them recruit the talent they need by expanding the number of workers who can enter the United States from other countries.That has become more urgent as the economy has improved and as declining unemployment has made it harder for companies to find workers. To assuage their concerns, Mr. Trump has increasingly tailored his immigration talking points to cater to the needs of business executives like those who attended a business round table on Wednesday at the White House.“We’re going to have a lot of people coming into the country. We want a lot of people coming in. And we need it,” Mr. Trump said as he sat next to Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, and other executives. “We want to have the companies grow, and the only way they’re going to grow is if we give them the workers, and the only way we’re going to have the workers is to do exactly what we’re doing.”But that message runs counter to the hard-line immigration image that Mr. Trump has carefully nurtured — most recently by shutting the government down for 35 days in a failed attempt to pressure Congress to fund a wall on the Mexican border.Mr. Trump won the White House in no small part by embracing anti-immigrant messaging that tapped into the economic fears of blue-collar workers upset about losing their jobs to foreign workers. Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, he attacked undocumented immigrants as “rapists and murderers” and called for a “big, beautiful wall” along the border with Mexico.Since becoming president, Mr. Trump has aggressively sought to crack down on illegal border crossings, increase deportations, cut the number of refugees allowed into the United States and make it harder for migrants to claim asylum. He has complained about drug dealers, gangs and members of Central American caravans pouring across the border. And last summer, his administration separated thousands of migrant children from their parents in an effort to deter Central American families from trying to seek refuge in the United States.The harsh record — and comments by Mr. Trump that disparaged African nations in vulgar terms and suggested that Haitian immigrants “all have AIDS” — has earned him the enmity of Democrats and immigration activists, who call him a racist president.It is unclear whether Mr. Trump will follow through on his recent, pro-business messaging. Many of the president’s aides — including Stephen Miller, his top immigration adviser in the White House — agree with the hard-line activists about the need to lower legal immigration.In 2017, Mr. Trump endorsed the Raise Act, a Republican Senate bill that would reduce legal immigration by as much as 50 percent. And the administration is currently considering a proposal to cut immigration by denying work authorizations, known as H-4 permits, to almost 100,000 spouses of immigrants who are brought in by companies to work legally in the United States.But even so, some of the nation’s most hard-line anti-immigration activists have become increasingly nervous that Mr. Trump might waver on their primary concern — the need to shrink the number of immigrants who enter the United States each year, currently 1.1 million.They argue that tight labor markets make it exactly the wrong time to allow more foreign workers to compete with Americans. Chris Chmielenski, the deputy director of NumbersUSA, which lobbies for lower legal immigration, said companies should be pressured to hire more Americans instead.“Anything we do now to bring in more foreign workers could actually reverse some of the economic gains over the last four years,” Mr. Chmielenski said. “We’re absolutely concerned. We feel this isn’t how he ran on the issue.”Last week, in an effort to communicate that message directly to Mr. Trump, NumbersUSA began airing an ad on Fox News Channel in the hopes that the president would get the message that his supporters do not want to let in more than one million immigrants each year.“The majority of voters say the number should be cut to 500,000 or less,” the ad said. “Americans want less immigration.”Mr. Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said that companies that no longer have access to foreign workers would have no choice but to turn to Americans who are still struggling to find work: people with disabilities, teenagers, older people and even former convicts.He also said that modest increases in wages for workers would evaporate if companies were allowed to simply tap an unlimited pool of lower-paid workers from other countries.“If you want wages to go up,” Mr. Krikorian said, “you don’t import more foreign labor.”Business groups dispute that analysis. They argue that immigration expands the amount of business activity in the United States, adding jobs and increasing wages for the vast majority of American workers.“Our country has benefited tremendously from welcoming people who have contributed to our economy, our communities, across the board,” said James Davis, a spokesman for the Koch network. “We want to welcome in everyone who wants to contribute to our society. We want to see more legal immigration.”Todd Schulte, the president of FWD.us, a pro-immigration advocacy group that started with backing from Mark Zuckerberg, a founder of Facebook, said that “immigrants and immigration increase economic growth, they increase economic productivity and they increase wages for the overwhelming number of native-born Americans.”Mr. Schulte, whose group has been highly critical of Mr. Trump’s anti-immigrant messaging and policies, welcomed the president’s recognition that legal immigration is a positive thing for the United States’ economy.But he cautioned that Mr. Trump must be measured by his actions, not his words. He called on the president to halt the effort to deny the H-4 work permits to immigrant spouses.“He should stop trying to revoke the H-4 rule,” Mr. Schulte said. “Increasing legal immigration would help native-born Americans. Unfortunately, the record has been one bent on cutting overall immigration levels.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Elijah Walker(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. In an exclusive wide-ranging interview, President Trump said he will proceed on a border wall without lawmakers and dismissed any suggestions of wrongdoing in investigations that have consumed his presidency.Mr. Trump called the current negotiations over the wall “a waste of time” and indicated he will likely take action on his own when they end in two weeks: “I’ve set the table. I’ve set the stage for doing what I’m going to do.”On the topic of China, he expressed optimism at reaching a trade deal. And he denied being at odds with his intelligence chiefs, just a day after calling them “naive” on Twitter.The interview was arranged after Mr. Trump reached out to the publisher of The Times, and invited him for an off-the-record dinner. The publisher declined, saying he would prefer an on-the-record interview that included two of his reporters. Mr. Trump agreed._____2. The polar vortex continued to cripple much of the country as temperatures remained near record lows across the Midwest for a second day. Parts of the Northeast also endured subzero wind chills. Above, Chicago at sunrise.At least 21 deaths have been connected with the record-breaking cold, including a University of Iowa freshman who was found unconscious near his dorm, and who died at the hospital.The sustained cold taxed energy systems and forced the cancellation of thousands of flights and closings of schools and universities. In Milwaukee, wind chill fell to minus 50. Here’s what photographers across the frigid regions are seeing.But the cold is expected to begin to lift on Friday. By the end of the weekend, temperatures in some areas could swing up to the 40s or 50s, bringing rain instead of snow._____3. The Senate, in a stinging bipartisan rebuke to President Trump, advanced a measure opposing his moves to withdraw troops in Syria and Afghanistan.The measure, written by Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, warned that “the precipitous withdrawal of United States forces from either country could put at risk hard-won gains and United States national security.”The measure was backed by virtually every Senate Republican and will be added to a broader bipartisan Middle East policy bill expected to pass the Senate next week.But the bipartisan spirit had its limits. Mr. McConnell (above, on Capitol Hill today) called a proposal to make Election Day a holiday a “power grab” by Democrats._____4. Companies across Britain, faced with increasing uncertainty around the country’s departure from the E.U., have been stockpiling products, making backup plans and exploring new shipping routes. International banks are shifting thousands of jobs from Britain to the Continent.“It’s meant extra resources, extra overtime, to get it done,” said one executive of an auto parts factory in the Midlands of England, pictured above. “It’s incredibly annoying. It’s frustrating.”The economy is 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if Britain had voted to remain in the E.U. in 2016, according to one research institution. And investment in the auto sector was found to have plunged by almost 50 percent in 2018._____5. The cold war between the two giant companies over data use and privacy is heating up.Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, has cut off Facebook’s access to apps and updates that it was working on internally, citing violation of Apple’s rules with a research app that allowed Facebook to snoop on users’ online activity.Our tech writer sees the possibility that Mr. Cook, above in September, could become “a technology regulator of last resort — using the power of Apple’s iOS operating system as a cudgel to force software companies to respect user privacy and play by the rules, or risk losing access to millions of iPhone users.”_____6. Three people in California were indicted in a crackdown on a multimillion-dollar “birth tourism” business as part of the biggest federal criminal probe to target an industry that capitalizes on the birthright of U.S. citizenship.The businesses were dismantled following raids in Irvine, Calif., in 2015, including the one pictured above. They coached clients to falsify U.S. visa applications and pay indigent rates at hospitals where they delivered. Some Chinese couples were charged as much as $100,000 for a package that included housing, nannies and shopping at Gucci, according to the indictments.One suggested pregnant mothers indicate that they intended to stay at a Trump luxury hotel, to convince immigration officials that they were well-to-do vacationers._____7. Jason Hairston played briefly in the N.F.L., hunted with Donald Trump Jr., and owned a successful hunting gear and apparel company. For years, he was convinced he had the degenerative brain disease known as C.T.E. from his football years.When he fatally shot himself in his bedroom last September, his family and friends were shocked. Not his wife, who watched his decline up close. “We were really good at hiding it,” she told our reporter.We took a look at the history of his deterioration, and the posthumous confirmation of C.T.E._____8. Frida Kahlo meticulously built her own image as an artist in the 20th century. Now, a sweeping survey in New York examines how she did it, and why.Through her own works and collections, the show, at the Brooklyn Museum, highlights Kahlo’s skill of leaving behind a public persona that still resonates well into the 21st century. It is the biggest stateside show ever devoted to the artist. We have images of some of the exhibits here.We also have a review of “Black Leopard, Red Wolf,” the first volume of Marlon James’s “Dark Star” trilogy. The novel is packed with dizzying references fused into something new and startling, our former chief book critic Michiko Kakutani writes._____9. One hundred years ago today, Jack Roosevelt Robinson was born in a red-clay corner of Georgia.In 1947, he was a 28-year-old rookie in a Brooklyn Dodgers uniform, the first African-American to play in the major leagues in the modern era. Jackie Robinson pushed the boundaries of baseball, and by extension, the entire country.We’ve collected 100 photos of the icon — a ballplayer, a change agent, a humanitarian — and commissioned a series of essays that examine the legacy of the baseball great. (They also all appear in a special section in today’s print paper.)_____10. Finally, we end the day slightly brokenhearted.Sweethearts, the brightly colored Valentine’s Day candy that offered “Be Mine” and “Kiss Me” messages, will be hard to find this year. The factory that manufactured the conversation hearts shut down last year. Brach’s, which also makes candied hearts, is ramping up production.But there may be hope yet for Sweethearts fans. A new owner of the brand left a three-heart response on its website for adoring fans: “Miss U 2,” the hearts said. “Wait 4 Me.” “Back Soon.”Have a sweet night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing inaccurately described a picture as showing Jackie Robinson after the National League Championship in 1950. He was receiving the John A. “Bud” Hillerich Memorial Award for his National League batting title in 1949.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byOur guide to pop and rock shows and the best of live jazz happening this weekend and in the week ahead.ANI CORDERO at the David Rubenstein Atrium at Lincoln Center (Jan. 31, 7:30 p.m.). The New York-based singer and instrumentalist uses music to tap into her Puerto Rican heritage, performing traditional music from the island, as well as from around Latin America (she’s worked with the Brazilian ensemble Os Mutantes, among others). Specifically, on her debut solo release in 2014, “Recordar,” Cordero paid tribute to Latin American music’s history of protest songs, offering her rendition of compositions by artists like Mexico’s Chavela Vargas and Chile’s Violeta Parra. This concert is free, and the Puerto Rican pop singer JOATA will open. 212-721-6500, lincolncenter.orgRYAN HURD at Bowery Ballroom (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.). Like many artists working to break through in Nashville, Hurd has an impressive roster of songs that he’s co-written for country stars: Darius Rucker, Dierks Bentley, Florida Georgia Line and Tim McGraw. While writing “Last Turn Home” for McGraw, Hurd met his wife, Maren Morris; now he’s guest-starring in her music videos. The songs he writes for himself are charmingly romantic, painting pictures of understated, easy affection. On “Love in a Bar” (which, naturally, is about Morris) he sings about falling hard for someone while sharing a few beers; his latest single, “To a T,” is an ode to a cozy night in. Both show his flair for believable love songs that aren’t cloyingly sweet. 212-260-4700, boweryballroom.comLES SAVY FAV at Junction (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.) and Elsewhere (Jan. 26, 7 p.m.). On Friday and Saturday, this art-punk quintet will perform their first local shows in more than two years. The band members have been experimenting with noise, pop and punk music for over two decades, but at this point — nearly nine years after their last new album, and with two members locked into a regular gig on “Late Night With Seth Meyers” — Les Savy Fav’s raucous, unpredictable live shows remain their calling card. Their gig at Junction in Long Beach, N.Y., is a benefit for Tommy Brull Foundation, an organization dedicated to helping people with special needs on Long Island; the band’s set at Elsewhere is sold out, but tickets are available through resellers. 516-889-1680, junction11561.comelsewherebrooklyn.comKACEY MUSGRAVES at the Beacon Theater (Jan. 25-26, 8 p.m.). A young country singer selling out two nights at one of New York City’s biggest theaters is newsworthy in and of itself; the fact that said country singer, Musgraves, is a woman working at a moment when country radio seems to be hostile to female artists only adds to the significance of this success. Long a critical darling, Musgraves took a pop-oriented swing with her mellow, sweet 2018 release, “Golden Hour,” and with its Grammy nomination for album of the year, she appears to have hit a home run. Tickets for both shows are available on the resale market. 212-465-6000, beacontheatre.comWU-TANG CLAN at Terminal 5 (Jan. 26-27, 8 p.m.). As part of the extended 25th anniversary celebration for their seminal 1993 debut, “Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers),” this Staten Island-bred rap group is performing two rare New York shows. Many of Wu-Tang’s nine founding members, including GZA, RZA, Method Man, Ghostface Killah and Raekwon, have found substantial success outside the group; “36 Chambers,” though, still holds importance. RZA recently told Complex of the release that “each of our lyrics are potent and become more substantiated as time goes on.” Both shows are sold out, but tickets are available through resellers. 212-582-6600, terminal5nyc.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]YOUNG DOLPH at Gramercy Theater (Jan. 31, 7 p.m.). Succeeding in rap without first rising through the ranks in one of its hubs — New York, Chicago, Atlanta or Los Angeles — is challenging. Yet Young Dolph’s commitment to representing his hometown, Memphis, remains steadfast. He’s also stayed independent, another unlikely choice for an M.C. who trades in catchy trap beats and streetwise lyrics just slightly more hard edged than the current trends on commercial rap radio. Fresh off his biggest solo success to date with the single “Major,” though, Dolph is starting to reap some rewards. The show is sold out, but tickets are available on the resale market.212-614-6932, thegramercytheatre.comNATALIE WEINERBRAXTON COOK at Baby’s All Right (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.). A gifted young alto saxophonist and vocalist, Cook is both a graduate of Juilliard’s notoriously traditionalist jazz program and a veteran of Christian Scott aTunde Adjuah’s genre-bending ensembles. In his increasingly acclaimed solo projects, Cook builds a contemporary, jazz-pop identity that draws from 1970s fusion, ’80s R&B and contemporary Los Angeles hip-hop. Through it all, he finds a way to let his bebop-rooted saxophone improvisations shine. At this concert, featuring a guest appearance from the trumpeter Theo Croker, he will draw material from “No Doubt,” an album he released late last year.babysallright.comANTONIO HART QUINTET at Smoke (Jan. 25-26, 7, 9 and 10:30 p.m.). Hart, a stellar alto saxophonist who burst onto the New York scene alongside Roy Hargrove in the early 1990s as part of the Young Lions generation, has always worn his debt to Cannonball Adderley on his cuffs. Here he presents a tribute to Adderley, an iconic hard-bop saxophonist, in a quintet that features Freddie Hendrix on trumpet, Caili O’Doherty on piano, Alex Ayala on bass and Cory Cox on drums.212-864-6662, smokejazz.comVIJAY IYER at Jazz Standard (through Jan. 27, 7:30 and 9:30 p.m.). Iyer’s sextet has been one of the hottest commodities in jazz since the release of its debut, “Far From Over,” in 2017. A version of that band will play on Friday and Saturday, presenting Iyer’s beaming, rhythmically interleaved original music. Then on Sunday, Iyer will perform with a newer group that features some of his colleagues and students at Harvard University, where he teaches. (He’s also a MacArthur fellow.) That band is called the Ritual Ensemble, and it features Ganavya Doraiswamy on vocals, Yosvany Terry on saxophones and Rajna Swaminathan on mridangam, an Indian percussion instrument.212-576-2232, jazzstandard.comAVA MENDOZA ET AL. at H0L0 (Jan. 31, 7 p.m.). A conclave of young avant-garde improvisers will descend on this darkened basement in Ridgewood, Queens, for a night of free playing. It’s hard to know where things will go; if you go, steel yourself for a wide variety of musical textures and temperaments, most of them liberated from standard time and harmony. The performers include the thrashing, post-metal guitarist Ava Mendoza; the pensive tenor saxophonist Ingrid Laubrock; and the bassist Brandon Lopez, who uses his instrument in a variety of nontraditional ways.h0l0.nyc‘THE MUSIC OF ANTHONY BRAXTON’ at Roulette (Jan. 25, 8 p.m.). One of the premier — and most prolific — living American composers, Braxton continues to release reams of new music, typically drawing on improvisation and built around his own complex musical systems. On Friday his 12-disc collection titled “GTM (Syntax) 2017,” featuring his Tri-Centric Vocal Ensemble, comes out. Here an 11-person version of that group performs in celebration of the record’s release. Afterward, the electronic musician Carl Testa and the pianist Cory Smythe will play music from a different part of Braxton’s repertoire, using a compositional system of his called Echo Echo Mirror House Music. 917-267-0368, roulette.orgWADADA LEO SMITH at the Appel Room (Jan. 26, 7 and 9:30 p.m.). Every recording Smith releases feels apt to be called a “landmark.” It’s the awe-inspiring, wide-screen breadth of his trumpet sound, the slowly accruing power of his compositions, and his way of making even small ensembles sound spacious — and ancient. “America’s National Parks,” his widely acclaimed 2016 release celebrating the natural wonders of North America, stands out in particular for its tumultuous melodic beauty and the bristling, mutating forms of its compositions. At Jazz at Lincoln Center, Smith presents the New York City debut of this work, joined by the personnel from the album: the pianist Anthony Davis, the cellist Ashley Walters, the bassist John Lindberg and the drummer Pheeroan akLaff.212-721-6500, jazz.orgGIOVANNI RUSSONELLOAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Melina Delkic(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering a purge of President Trump’s homeland security staff, a search for a Brexit path and protests inspired by the Arab Spring.A day after the U.S. homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, resigned, the departures of the director of the Secret Service, the head of the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, and the department’s general counsel were expected.The exodus appeared to be part of an effort by President Trump to clear out the department and steer it in a “tougher” direction.Many immigration policy changes require congressional approval, however.Visas: The federal government wants to issue more visas for foreign workers to take temporary jobs in housekeeping, landscaping and other fields, even as Mr. Trump threatens to seal the border with Mexico, where most of those workers come from.In court: A California judge on Monday blocked the president’s efforts to force asylum seekers to wait in Mexico while their cases are adjudicated by the immigration courts.Prime Minister Theresa May’s government continued meeting with officials from the opposition Labour Party to discuss a compromise plan for Britain’s withdrawal from the E.U., which is currently scheduled for Friday.Over the weekend, Mrs. May suggested that a compromise could be worked out around immigration from the E.U., which could pave the way for maintaining close economic ties with the bloc.What’s next: The Conservative government and Labour resume talks today, and European leaders are expected to meet and consider Mrs. May’s request for another Brexit extension on Wednesday. Jeremy Corbyn, the Labour leader, faces a decision after years of ambiguity regarding his stance on Brexit. Having accepted Mrs. May’s offer to negotiate, he will most likely face uncomfortable choices if she softens her stance and tries to tempt him with a credible compromise. Tens of thousands of demonstrators in Sudan are demanding the ouster of an autocratic ruler. In Algeria, millions of protesters forced out their own octogenarian leader last week. And in Libya, an aging general is battling to establish himself as a new strongman.The hopes inspired in 2011 by the Arab Spring uprising, or the waves of anti-government protests in Egypt, Libya, Syria, Tunisia and Yemen, are reverberating across the region, shaking autocratic governments and posing questions about the future.Protesters are seeking an end to closed and corrupt economies and authoritarian governments that are unresponsive to the public. “History repeats itself,” said one leader of the Egyptian uprising of 2011.What’s next: President Trump is expected to host President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi of Egypt at the White House today. Some scholars say the upheaval is a warning of the risks of embracing such autocratic allies too closely.History lesson: Even the meaning of the Arab Spring remains contested. For authoritarian governments, it’s that popular revolutions lead to bedlam. For young people in Algeria and Sudan, it’s that nonviolent protests can oust even the most deeply entrenched dictator.The country heads into a parliamentary election today with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, one of Israel’s longest-serving leaders, facing stiff competition from a new rival, Benny Gantz, a former army chief.Mr. Netanyahu has overseen healthy economic growth, but charges of bribery, fraud and breach of trust have loomed over his campaign.Political bombshell: Over the weekend, Mr. Netanyahu pledged that, if re-elected, he would extend Israel’s sovereignty over the West Bank, an apparent last-ditch attempt to woo right-wing voters.The West Bank is home to 2.6 million Palestinians. If Mr. Netanyahu carried out his promise, it could end any possibility of a two-state solution.Iran: In a move that could give Mr. Netanyahu a boost, President Trump designated an arm of the Iranian military — the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps — as a foreign terrorist organization, the first time the U.S. has made such a declaration about part of a government.Our reporter got aboard a new train service from Ethiopia’s capital, Addis Ababa, to the Djibouti coast, part of a planned network that, with China’s help, is meant to eventually cover 3,000 miles.But even the existing segment offers a voyage of many discoveries.Boeing: The company’s troubled 737 Max was built on a 1960s design, and it lacked notable safety features that have been offered for years on other planes. Our reporters look at the history behind the patchwork plane grounded after two crashes in five months.Britain: The government has proposed sweeping powers to fight the online spread of violent and extremist content, false information and harmful material aimed at children in one of the world’s most aggressive plans to regulate the internet.Italy: Matteo Salvini, the most powerful figure in Italy’s government, announced the formation of a new European alliance of populist and far-right parties ahead of critical European Parliament elections in May. France: Citizens want lower taxes and no reduction in public services, according to a three-month national consultation in which some 1.5 million French citizens let the government know what they wanted. It was President Emmanuel Macron’s strategy for sucking the wind out of the Yellow Vest protest movement. Snapshot: Poland’s governing party has made gay people its top enemy. Maciej Gosniowski, above left, one of Poland’s few drag performers, said that while the vitriol directed at gays was alarming, he noticed an outpouring of support at the same time. “The two wings of society seem to be spreading apart,” he said.What we’re reading: This Medium collection of interviews with writers about how they paid the bills while they wrote their books. Concepción de León, a staff writer for our Books section, recommends it, saying, “Reading about the jobs these writers worked — librarian, paramedic, apartment building superintendent — lifts the veil on the labor that made possible our favorite stories, aside from the labor of writing them.”Cook: Spicy sausage and sweet butternut squash are a perfect match for a sheet-pan dinner. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)Watch: “Dumbo,” Tim Burton’s live-action remake of the Disney tale about an airborne baby elephant, “takes a turn toward the fascinatingly weird,” our critic writes.Read: A history of the moon landing 50 years later and a new novel from Sally Rooney are among the 10 books to watch for this month.Listen: “Old Town Road,” the viral hit by the rapper Lil Nas X that set off a debate about what is, isn’t or might be country music, is the focus of our pop music podcast.Smarter Living: The kitchen-wear entrepreneur Ellen Bennett organizes her kitchen like a professional chef, to keep from having to hunt around for ingredients and tools. Her method can work for you. Separate cookware by four main functions: prep, cook, serve, store. Date and label spices and store them in transparent containers. And good knife skills can replace any number of gadgets.We also have guidance on how to securely mount your flat-screen TV.Lately, leggings have become a cultural lightning rod. But a new retrospective of the British designer Mary Quant reminds us of an earlier fashion flash point: the miniskirt revolution.Ms. Quant, a trailblazer of Swinging Sixties fashion, famously said she “didn’t have time to wait for women’s lib.” Her higher-than-high hemlines insisted on young women’s right to bare their legs.She named her trademark skirt after her favorite car, the original Mini Cooper.Pieces of clothing resembling miniskirts have been identified by archaeologists as far back as the 1300s B.C., but it wasn’t until the mid-20th century that the mini really took off. Staying true to the Hemline Index (whereby skirt hemlines rise along with stock prices), the miniskirt perfectly captured 1960s London. The trend has followed a boom-and-bust cycle ever since.Bans on short skirts are enforced in several African countries, however, and wearing a mini can prompt outrage — and even criminal arrest — in parts of the Middle East.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— MelinaThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Elizabeth Paton, our Europe-based Styles reporter, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode is about Russia’s campaign of state-sponsored assassinations.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Something built in a gym (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times’s article about the controversy over leggings drew more than 1,800 comments from readers.Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Adeel Hassan, Karen Zraick and Alan BlinderThe Southern Poverty Law Center said Thursday that it had fired its co-founder and chief trial lawyer, Morris Dees, after nearly a half-century, during which he helped build the organization into a fearsome powerhouse that focused on hate crimes and with an endowment that approached half a billion dollars.The group’s president, Richard Cohen, did not give a specific reason for the dismissal of Mr. Dees, 82, on Wednesday. But Mr. Cohen said in a statement that as a civil-rights group, the S.P.L.C. was “committed to ensuring that the conduct of our staff reflects the mission of the organization and the values we hope to instill in the world.”“When one of our own fails to meet those standards, no matter his or her role in the organization, we take it seriously and must take appropriate action,” Mr. Cohen said.Mr. Cohen’s statement suggested that Mr. Dees’s firing was linked to workplace conduct. He said the center, which is based in Montgomery, Ala., had requested “a comprehensive assessment of our internal climate and workplace practices” in a bid to ensure that the organization was a place where “all voices are heard and all staff members are respected.”In an interview on Thursday evening, Mr. Dees said he had reviewed the S.P.L.C.’s statement on his dismissal but noted that it did not include any specific allegations against him.“All I can say is it was not my decision,” said Mr. Dees, who added that he had limited involvement with the organization in recent years.Asked whether he had engaged in any behavior that could have been perceived as improper, he replied, “I have no idea how people take things.”Mr. Dees and the S.P.L.C. have been credited with undermining the influence of the Ku Klux Klan and extremist groups. But in recent years, the center has come under scrutiny for its classifications of “hate groups,” and whether the organization has abused that label in pursuit of a political agenda or increased donations.The center has tracked extremist activity and hate groups throughout the country since the 1980s. Its 2018 Intelligence Project report identified 1,020 hate groups, its largest number ever. Conservatives have accused the group of unfairly including right-leaning organizations on the list.Mr. Dees, the son of an Alabama farmer, sold his book publishing business to begin the civil rights law practice that would eventually become the S.P.L.C. in 1971. His co-founders were the civil rights leader Julian Bond and another young Montgomery lawyer, Joe Levin.In 1987, Mr. Dees, a skilled marketer and a shrewd legal strategist, won $7 million in damages against the United Klans of America on behalf of the family of Michael Donald, a 19-year-old black man whose body was left hanging in a tree in Mobile, Ala.An all-white jury awarded the verdict after Mr. Dees compared Mr. Donald to martyrs of the civil rights movement, like the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.“They sacrificed a human being to get some publicity for the Klan,” Mr. Dees said. “He’ll go down in civil rights history in the fight for black rights. I hope your verdict goes down in history right beside him.”The center’s most recent tax documents showed an endowment of $471 million. In response to criticism about its wealth, the center has pointed to the high cost of engaging in long, complicated legal battles. Skepticism has persisted anyway.After the deadly violence at a white nationalist gathering in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017, donations to the organization came flooding in. Tim Cook, the head of Apple, announced the company would donate $1 million to the center. It also received a $1 million grant from a foundation created by George and Amal Clooney.“I am glad to see Dees leave S.P.L.C., whatever the reason,” William A. Jacobson, a professor at Cornell Law School and an outspoken critic of the group, said on Thursday.“S.P.L.C. long ago focused on combating the Ku Klux Klan, but then abused the reputation it earned for those efforts by demonizing political opponents through the use of hate and extremist lists to stifle speech by people who presented no risk of violence,” Mr. Jacobson said.But Don E. Siegelman, a Democratic former governor of Alabama, praised Mr. Dees for his contributions to civil rights.“Morris has contributed a great deal to civil rights and human rights and justice, and the pursuit of those who have committed hate crimes,” said Mr. Siegelman. He added that he had not closely monitored the organization’s recent work. (Mr. Siegelman spent years in a federal prison after being convicted of corruption charges.)In 2016, the King Center in Atlanta gave its highest honor to Mr. Dees: the Martin Luther King Jr. Nonviolent Peace Prize, according to an article on the Southern Poverty Law Center’s website.It quotes Dr. Bernice A. King, Dr. King’s daughter, who leads the center, as saying that Mr. Dees “has tirelessly, and bravely championed the rights of the disenfranchised.”Previous recipients of the award include Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Cesar Chavez, Rosa Parks and President Jimmy Carter.This is not the first time the center has had to deal with public issues of workplace conduct. In 1994, The Montgomery Advertiser published an eight-part series on the S.P.L.C. that included allegations of discriminatory treatment of black employees.The report included accounts from staff members accusing Mr. Dees of being a racist, and suggested that black employees felt threatened. The center and Mr. Dees denied the accusations.Mr. Dees said he learned of his firing in an email this week. On Thursday evening, he repeatedly said he would not “say anything negative about the center or its employees.”“I’ll let my life’s work and my reputation speak for itself,” he said. “I wish the center the absolute best. We have 700,000 donors, and I think they know me and they don’t think anything negatively about me.”An earlier version of this article misstated the year that Morris Dees won $7 million in damages on behalf of the family of Michael Donald. It was in 1987, not 1981.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — After European policymakers adopted a sweeping data privacy law last year, the big question was how regulators would use their newfound authority against the most powerful technology companies.In the first major example, the French data protection authority announced Monday that it had fined Google 50 million euros, or about $57 million, for not properly disclosing to users how data is collected across its services — including its search engine, Google Maps and YouTube — to present personalized advertisements.The penalty is the largest to date under the European Union privacy law, known as the General Data Protection Regulation, which took effect in May, and shows that regulators are following through on a pledge to use the rules to push back against internet companies whose businesses depend on collecting data. Facebook is also a subject of several investigations by the data protection authorities in Europe.The ruling signals a new phase in enforcing the European law, which the region’s lawmakers and privacy groups have cheered as a check against the growing power of technology companies, while for general consumers it has led mostly to a frustrating increase in the number of consent boxes to click. The fine against Google is just the fourth penalty against any company since the law took effect.Europe’s experience is being closely watched by policymakers in the United States, who are considering a new federal privacy law. Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive officer, last week called for new rules that closely follow Europe’s.Europe has become the world’s most aggressive tech watchdog. In addition to the privacy rules, the region’s regulators have set the bar with stricter enforcement of antitrust laws against Google and other tech behemoths and taken a tougher stance against the industry’s tax policies. Google, a frequent target, was fined a record €4.3 billion last year for abusing its power in the mobile phone market.The ruling on Monday takes aim at Google’s business model, which turns data on users into narrowly targeted ads.A central element of Europe’s new regulations is that companies must clearly explain how data is collected and used. France’s data protection regulator, known as CNIL, said Google did not go far enough to get consent from users before processing data. Instead, it said, people are largely unaware of the data they are agreeing to share, or how Google plans to use the information.In a statement, the regulator said Google’s practices obscured how its services “can reveal important parts of their private life since they are based on a huge amount of data, a wide variety of services and almost unlimited possible combinations.”Google’s size — it has about 20 different services — makes its data-collection practices “particularly massive and intrusive,” the French authorities said.Google defended its policies and said it was determining whether to appeal.“People expect high standards of transparency and control from us,” a Google spokesman said. “We’re deeply committed to meeting those expectations and the consent requirements of the G.D.P.R. We’re studying the decision to determine our next steps.”The case against Google stemmed from a complaint filed by privacy groups that accused the search giant of not properly adjusting its data-collection practices to account for Europe’s stricter privacy rules.“A lot of U.S. companies have dumped everything they do in a consent box and have people waive their rights,” said Max Schrems, an Austrian lawyer who founded NOYB, one of the groups that filed the complaint, and is a longtime antagonist of American tech giants over data collection.“No one who reads it understands,” he added. “I don’t know what they do with my data, and I’m a lawyer.”Raphaël Dana, a partner at the Paris law firm Frieh Associés who specializes in privacy law, said Silicon Valley companies should expect more penalties across Europe as a result of the data protection law.“This is going to change the perspective between the profits that internet companies are able to make from the data of users, and the risk of being sanctioned with fines,” Mr. Dana said.The fine announced on Monday is far lower than the maximum penalty under the European privacy law, which is 4 percent of global revenue. For Google, that would be more than $4 billion.“The fine is immaterial,” said Johnny Ryan, the chief policy and industry relations officer at the web browser Brave. “But CNIL’s decision is very significant because it means that Google must stop building advertising profiles about people until it has properly told them what it is doing and received their consent.”Mr. Ryan said the risk to Google was that people would be startled to see how their data was used.“It is likely that many people will say no to being profiled by Google when they learn the truth,” he said.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Laurel GraeberOur guide to cultural events in New York City for children and teenagers happening this weekend and in the week ahead.‘THE ADVENTURES OF ALVIN SPUTNIK: DEEP SEA EXPLORER’ at the Clark Studio Theater (March 30-31, 2 p.m.). This one-person play simultaneously evokes the ancient Greek myth of Orpheus and pressing 21st-century concerns about climate change. Winner of an outstanding solo show award when it ran at the New York International Fringe Festival in 2009, the production, from the Australian company the Last Great Hunt, takes place in a future in which the oceans have risen so steeply that the only habitable places are atop mountains and skyscrapers. LC Kids, Lincoln Center’s series for young people, has revived this work, which was created by Tim Watts, as part of its expanded offerings for theatergoers 12 and older. Incorporating animation, puppetry and music, the show follows the titular character on a volunteer mission into the ocean depths, where he hopes both to find a hospitable environment for humans and to reunite with the soul of his dead wife.212-721-6500, kids.lincolncenter.org‘ANIMANIACS IN CONCERT!’ at the Loft at City Winery (March 31, 7:30 p.m.). Many children have never seen Rob Paulsen, but they may well have heard him. A talented voice actor, he has performed such memorable animated roles as Pinky in “Pinky and the Brain,” Yakko in “Animaniacs” and Raphael in “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles” (for which he now does the voice of the new character Foot Lieutenant). At this show, he will appear with Randy Rogel, the composer for “Animaniacs,” to perform songs from that 1990s series alongside screenings of some of its classic episodes. And though it’s a school night, just remember that those cartoon numbers can be really educational.212-608-0555, citywinery.comBRICK FEST LIVE at the New York Hall of Science (March 30-31, 10 a.m.-6 p.m.). Imagine being surrounded by more than 100,000 Lego bricks. Now here’s the good news: You won’t have to pick them up and put them away. This Queens museum becomes a giant play space at this event, which invites children to view huge sculptures made from these popular building toys — like Darth Vader of “Star Wars” and Woody of “Toy Story” — and to fashion their own Lego creations. The construction areas include Neon City, featuring glow-in-the-dark bricks; Floorsaic, a collaborative place to make a 20-foot-by-20-foot mosaic; Nerdy Derby, an arena to engineer and race Lego cars; and Duplo Junior Builders, designed especially for preschoolers. (Although advance tickets are sold out, the museum will offer admission at the door.) 718-699-0005, nysci.orgKIDS ’N COMEDY: ‘MOODY AS MARCH’ at Gotham Comedy Club (March 31, 1 p.m.). Parents know that adolescents’ volatile emotional states are no joke, but tweens and teenagers themselves will mine the subject for plenty of laughs in this stand-up show. Produced by Kids ’N Comedy, an organization in which experienced comics teach young people how to write and perform, the presentation features the most talented students, who gear their material toward audience members 9 and older. The rules forbid profanity and crudity, but sophisticated humor is welcome — and expected. (Reservations are required.)212-877-6115, kidsncomedy.com[Read about the events that our other critics have chosen for the week ahead.]‘LAST STOP ON MARKET STREET’ at the Linda Gross Theater (March 30, 10:30 a.m.; March 31, 10:30 a.m. and 5:30 p.m.; through April 13). Although this buoyant musical takes its title from a bus route, it focuses on a more expansive journey: how CJ, a sheltered, self-absorbed boy, learns not just to open his eyes to urban life but to open his heart to the rest of humanity. Presented by Atlantic for Kids, a division of the Atlantic Theater Company, the show follows CJ, played by a young adult (the appealing Jaevon Williams), as he visits his grandmother (a no-nonsense Kara Green) in an unnamed city, where he encounters the disabled, the homeless and a host of others different from himself. While “Last Stop,” adapted by Cheryl L. West from Matt de la Peña’s Newbery Medal-winning picture book, occasionally veers toward sanctimony, there’s no arguing with the power of its score, which includes rap, R&B, gospel and Latin influences. Written by the Motown master Lamont Dozier and his son Paris Dozier, these songs insist that life demands more than just going along for the ride. 866-811-4111, atlantictheater.org‘THE LIGHTNING THIEF: THE PERCY JACKSON MUSICAL’ at the Beacon Theater (March 28-29, 7 p.m.; March 30, 2 and 7 p.m.; March 31, noon and 4:30 p.m.). Percy isn’t a typical sixth grader: He happens to be a son of the Greek god Poseidon, with some unusual powers that such a status confers. Yet he also copes with problems familiar to ordinary mortals, like dyslexia, impulse control and difficulties at school. Young audiences can watch him grapple with both sides of his identity in this revival of an acclaimed rock musical that TheaterWorksUSA adapted from the first novel in Rick Riordan’s best-selling series. With a book by Joe Tracz and music and lyrics by Rob Rokicki, the show chronicles Percy’s quest to retrieve Zeus’ stolen lightning bolt and avert a war among the gods.866-858-0008, beacontheatre.comLIVING HISTORY: WOMEN, THE EXTRAORDINARY SOLDIERS OF THE CIVIL WAR (March 30, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.) and LIVING HISTORY: DEBORAH SAMPSON (March 31, 11 a.m.-4 p.m.) at the New-York Historical Society. This museum is ending Women’s History Month by saluting American female patriots who did more than cook, clean, sew and spy for the men at the front: They actually took up arms. On Saturday, a program presented by “Reenactress: The Battles of Jennie Reb & Betty Yank,” a coming documentary about female Civil War re-enactors, will feature historians portraying and discussing some of the women — thought to be as many as a thousand — who fought in the conflict (usually in disguise), as well as those who served as surgeons or uniformed vivandières (field nurses and other volunteers). On Sunday, Judith Kalaora, founder and director of the organization History at Play, will appear as Deborah Sampson (1760-1827), who enlisted in the American Revolution by pretending to be a man. (When wounded in the thigh, Sampson treated the injury herself.) Young visitors on both days can get in on the action by learning and practicing historical military drills.212-873-3400, nyhistory.orgAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kevin ArmstrongPORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — When Mets Manager Mickey Callaway considered the 64 bodies in his clubhouse at the start of spring training, he noted an improvement.“We have way more depth than we’ve ever had,” he said.He mentioned his stockpile of four catchers who could work in the major leagues this season. At first base, he welcomed a four-man competition among Pete Alonso, Dominic Smith, J. D. Davis and Todd Frazier.“We’re excited that it’s going to be kind of a battle royale for a bunch of positions this year,” he said.That battle has become something of a war of attrition. Within days of arriving in camp, Jed Lowrie, the utility infielder who signed a two-year contract worth $20 million in the off-season, was flown back to New York to learn that he had a sprained knee capsule. Frazier followed the same flight path to a doctor’s office a few days later with a left oblique strain that required a cortisone shot. The setbacks forced Callaway to start mixing and matching his Grapefruit League lineups before March commenced.“Unforeseen things are going to happen,” he said. “That’s just the reality of baseball.”Outfielders have not been immune to the rash of injuries. Jeff McNeil, slated to start in left field, was scratched from the lineup two days after scraping his left wrist while diving for a batted ball during a game. Center fielder Brandon Nimmo missed action because of an upset stomach after cooking chicken for himself.“We’re going to have to teach him how to cook so he doesn’t miss any more games,” Callaway said.The unfortunate has been familiar to the Mets of late. Last spring, outfielder Tim Tebow tripped on a sprinkler head during his first workout. Over the summer, pitcher Noah Syndergaard received a diagnosis of hand, foot and mouth disease. In the fall, David Wright retired because of chronic neck and shoulder ailments. All were reminders that the best plans can go sideways quickly.With opening day less than a month away, here is how the roster looks.Infielders: Who’s at first? It depends on the day. Alonso led off the exhibition season with a solo home run in his first at-bat, and Davis, who can play first or third, countered by blasting a two-run homer as he went 3 for 5 as a designated hitter.The Mets are sure-handed up the middle, with Robinson Cano bringing his nifty fielding and a smooth stroke to second base. Shortstop Amed Rosario will be a running threat on the bases, and Adeiny Hechavarria, a late pickup who previously played with the Yankees, “covers us in so many ways,” Callaway said.When healthy, Lowrie, who has primarily played at second base and shortstop but is expected to start at third for Mets, will provide versatility. So will Frazier, a veteran whose experience is valued in the clubhouse.Outfielders: Yoenis Cespedes, who is recovering from operations on his heels, is in camp and singing along to country songs in the clubhouse. But he will not be patrolling the outfield anytime soon. Callaway considers Cespedes “the icing on the cake” if he can come back for a late summer run.For now, center field belongs to Nimmo. McNeil, who may need to be called into duty at third base, will be in left, and Michael Conforto will be in right.There are plenty of legs with Juan Lagares and Keon Broxton playing reserve roles, but the Mets also need hits. Last season, only one team in the majors had fewer hits than the Mets — the Philadelphia Phillies. Conforto and Company will be counted on to put more balls in play.Starting Pitchers:According to Callaway’s calculations, the Mets should plan to use 11 or 12 pitchers this season. Jacob deGrom, who won the Cy Young Award with a 1.70 earned run average last season, and Syndergaard, who posted a 3.03 E.R.A., will anchor the rotation. Both have looked healthy in workouts and game actionZack Wheeler went 10-1 with a 1.96 E.R.A. down the stretch in the second half of last season, and Jason Vargas was 5-1 with a 2.62 E.R.A. in his final eight starts. Steven Matz will try to build off a season with 30 starts, a career high.Syndergaard started on opening day last season. He ended up with 155 strikeouts in 154⅓ innings, but missed starts because of a strained ligament in his right index finger and the hand, foot and mouth disease.The only certainty is who will take the ball on opening day in Washington.“I think Jacob decided that last June,” Callaway said.Bullpen: Cano headlined the seven-player trade that brought him back to New York during the off-season, but Edwin Diaz, the 24-year-old closer who collected 57 saves in 61 chances for Seattle last year, may be the most important part of the transaction for the Mets.Jeurys Familia, once the closer, returns as the setup man. In six and a half seasons with the Mets before he was traded to Oakland last summer, he saved 123 games and his E.R.A. was 2.66.Seth Lugo can set up, close or start.Catchers: Wilson Ramos has been well received by the pitching staff. He looks fresh after spending the off-season working on agility drills and convincing General Manager Brodie Van Wagenen that he can do the job despite twice tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee.Travis d’Arnaud is returning from Tommy John surgery, and Devin Mesoraco is back behind the plate after catching 21 of deGrom’s starts last season.Though he can play other positions, d’Arnaud will focus on catcher rather than risk injury during rehabilitation. He could be an option elsewhere, in the outfield or at first base, depending on how the team’s depth holds up.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhen Apple introduced the Apple Watch five years ago, the whole tech industry began to flirt with style. But interest in wearables has cooled. By Vanessa FriedmanA sudden, striking influx of glamorous non-techies at a tech hub in California. Grumbles about NDAs. Excited, surreptitious glances. Gossip about disruption. A drumroll for a hitherto hush-hush, industry-upsetting announcement. Sound familiar?This is not a description of what is happening today at the Apple event in Cupertino, as the company unveils its new video service and television shows (among other things). It is a description of what happened on Sept. 9, 2014, at the Apple event in Cupertino, where the Apple watch was unveiled. For those of us who remember that day, the run-up to this week has provided an eerie sense of déjà vu.Not to mention a question: What’s the deal with wearables and fashion? Five years on from the watch’s much-ballyhooed introduction, is the relationship over? Has technology found a new object for its affections?For a brief, shining moment, there was such an intense attraction. The trend wheel turns so fast these days that it is easy to forget, but take a moment, please, to remember when. Because it is possible that there is a lesson for us all buried in the end of the affair (apologies to Graham Greene).“There is this endless hunger in fashion for newness and what’s the next thing, and Apple and Silicon Valley really promises that,” said Mimma Viglezio, the editor of the digital platform ShowStudio. “So they” — we! — “just embraced it.”In advance of the watch’s introduction, Apple — which, after all, had been built on some of the principles dear to luxury, including the allure of tactile design, and planned obsolescence — began seducing glossy executives right and left to come work for the company. Most notably there was Paul Deneve, the chief executive of Yves Saint Laurent; Patrick Pruniaux, of Tag Heuer; and Angela Ahrendts, the chief executive credited with using technology to transform Burberry, who arrived at Apple to run its retail and e-tail operations with a gilded halo still fresh on her head.Front-row denizens like Alexandra Shulman, the editor of British Vogue, and Lauren Indvik, the editor of Fashionista, flew out to Cupertino in the middle of New York Fashion Week, suggesting that when it came to shows, the one in California was the one that mattered. During Paris Fashion Week, Apple had an unveiling at the super-boutique Colette and Karl Lagerfeld came. Later there was a dinner at Azzedine Alaïa’s, so designers like Olivier Rousteing (of Balmain) and models like Cara Delevingne could ogle the accessory.The watch made its magazine debut on the cover of China Vogue. Apple took out a 12-page ad in American Vogue. One year after the first unveil, also during fashion week, Apple announced a partnership with Hermès, and the following May the company underwrote the Met Gala for the “Manus x Machina” show, itself an ode to the coziness of fashion and technology (which was the unofficial dress code of the party). Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, showed up; Jony Ive, Apple’s chief design officer, was a co-host, along with Anna Wintour, the artistic director of Condé Nast and editor of Vogue. As symbolism went, the picture said it all.(Or seemed to, anyway; whether the cosiness was part of an overall fashion strategy or just a series of coincidental niceties between a company that makes glossy inanimate things and an industry that makes animate things glossy, we’ll likely never know, given how tight-lipped Apple is.)In any case, Apple was only a part of it.Samsung’s Gear S also made its fashion week debut in September 2014, courtesy of Diesel Black Gold. Intel teamed up with Humberto Leon and Carol Lim of Opening Ceremony to create the MICA smartbangle. Will.i.am introduced the “puls” cuff, inspired in part by Chanel’s signature Maltese cross cuffs. Not long afterward, Ralph Lauren introduced the connected Ricky bag with a light and a charging port (which followed its connected tennis shirt that monitored heart rate). “It’s a game changer for us in luxury,” David Lauren, the company’s executive vice president for advertising, marketing and corporate communications, said at the time.Tag Heuer, Intel and Google teamed up to make their own connected version of the Carrera watch. Louis Vuitton made a connected Tambour Horizon and described a future internet of Louis Vuitton things. It was like a smart-accessory orgy. That moment in 2012 when Google Glass strutted down the runway at a Diane von Furstenberg show and everyone cringed — even DVF could not rescue that gadget from its own nerdiness — was treated as simply an awkward early harbinger of better things to come. This was the future!The cool of California was going to rub off on the hidebound fashion world, and the glamour of fashion was going to fill consumers with desire for products. Instead of competing for the same wallet share, they would both benefit.But then Mr. Deneve left Apple. So did Mr. Pruniaux. And next month, Ms. Ahrendts departs. Intel “exited the end-product wearables area in 2017,” according to a company spokeswoman, and has pivoted to data analysis used to inform retailers and brands, among others. Will.i.am refocused on “artificial intelligence and voice-controlled computing, for B2B and B2C hardware” his representative said. Ralph Lauren no longer sells a connected bag. All the talk about wearables and fashion has gone very, very quiet.“The Venn overlap is not as great as anyone thought,” said Scott Galloway, a professor of marketing at the New York University Stern School of Business and the founder of the digital think tank L2. “Technology is essentially about creating utility and spreading it over billions of people. Fashion is about creating a moment, a trend, a romance and spreading it across a small amount of influential people.”This does not mean that wearables themselves are over (although it would be good if someone could think of a different word for the category, since theoretically it could apply to anything you put on your body).By all accounts, the smartwatch industry, which accounts for 44 percent of the “wearable devices” market, according to the research group International Data Corporation, is doing just fine. I.D.C. predicts that watches will be among the main drivers of a 15.3 percent growth in the market this year. (A new report from the NPD group said that in 2018 sales of smartwatches in the United States increased 54 percent.)In Apple’s Q1 2019 earnings call in January, Mr. Cook said that its wearables category was up 50 percent (that primarily means watches and AirPods). A spokesman for Hermès said its Apple watch was one of its most popular models. Louis Vuitton’s smartwatch accounts for half of its watch business.But while once upon a time there were rumors about other designers joining the gang, and third parties like Coach and Kate Spade have made bands for the Apple watch, the talk these days is all about the watch being a platform for health and fitness — which is also why the fitness brands (Nike especially) are still gung-ho.That does not mean fashion itself is not interested in technology. There is a lot of excitement among executives I speak to about augmented reality as a shopping tool. As far as material science and production, technology is hugely promising, especially as the industry looks more and more to sustainability.“What’s happening is it has spread into the back end of production nanotechnology and fabric,” said Amanda Parkes, the chief innovation officer of Future Tech Lab. “But that takes time to develop, like biotech.”In the meantime, a few brands are dallying with cool stuff on the side. Jimmy Choo recently unveiled a heated lace-up urban hiking boot. It warms up via a battery in the heel, and then connects to a phone app so you can control and monitor the temperature. Ralph Lauren has designed heated versions of its Polo 11 and Olympic puffer jackets (they are also controlled via an app). Vuitton introduced wireless earphones made with Master & Dynamic technology and is testing a connected suitcase. And Levi’s has been selling its Commuter x Jacquard by Google connected jean jacket since fall 2017.But the fact that all of those developments, which five years ago would have been trumpeted with drumrolls and bells and whistles, slipped in practically under the radar is reflective of the new state of … well, I wouldn’t call it estrangement, but rather a cooling off of the once heated relationship.“The connected boot is playful and was just one of those things we kind of add on when it makes sense,” said Sandra Choi, the creative director of Jimmy Choo, who added that the boot has been well received. It was not included, though, in the company’s presentation during the most recent Milan Fashion Week because it was not considered core to the Jimmy Choo identity, or even indicative of future direction.Paul Dillinger, the head of global product innovation at Levi’s, said much the same, noting that the connected jacket is positioned in Levi’s Commuter Collection, “which is a fairly niche area of the business.” When it came time for the next season’s release, instead of offering a new style or a new product, the company chose to offer the same product — with new applications. “We put the creative energy of fashion design into the jacket’s digital collateral rather than physical collateral,” Mr. Dillinger said.Mr. Galloway of N.Y.U. said the conclusion was simple: “There was only one wearable that was really a fashion statement, and that was your phone.” Which may have been the root of the problem. We thought that wherever that led, everything else would follow. Apparently not.All of which suggests we are over the fashion-tech PDAs. We’re kind of platonic acquaintances now. Every once in while it’s nice to meet up again and air kiss.So what have we learned from the last five years?Maybe that the real future of fashion and technology has nothing to do with screens.Maybe that the concept of a “hero product” that is so associated with the world of technology doesn’t really work in the context of an industry that already has its own hero products (Hollywood might take note of that one). Indeed, Mr. Dillinger said he was initially quite skeptical about the idea of the Jacquard. “I really value the objects of fashion for being what they are,” he said.It’s possible we don’t actually want our clothes, or our accessories, to do much more than they already do, which is make us feel good and be tools of self-expression, symbols of membership in a group, clues to aspirations.That’s what the phone did. And, though no one necessarily saw it coming, what AirPods and Vuitton earphones — which cost almost $1,000, but which, since their introduction in January, have sold three times more than the second-generation LV smartwatch released at the same time, and currently have wait lists — are doing: acting as visible semaphores of identity. According to I.D.C., by 2023 “ear worn devices” will be the second-largest category of wearables, accounting for 31 percent of the market. (By contrast, it predicts that smartclothes will account for only around 3 percent).In other words, that drumroll in your head? It’s actually hearables. Though personally I like “earwear” better.Vanessa Friedman is The Times's fashion director and chief fashion critic. She was previously the fashion editor of the Financial Times.  @VVFriedman Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with the continuing polar vortex, a dispute between Apple and Facebook, and the end of a marathon church service.The polar vortex is expected to continue today, and the high in New York is forecast to be 16 degrees, tying a city record for Jan. 31. On Wednesday, it brought temperatures as low as minus 28 in Minneapolis and upended daily life for many in the Midwest, halting planes and trains, shutting schools, and prompting officials to open emergency centers.The bitter weather is believed to be tied to at least eight deaths, and health officials warned residents to go outdoors only if necessary. For you: Exposed skin can quickly lead to frostbite. Chicagoans shared cold-weather survival tips.President Trump has accused the nation’s intelligence agencies of being “passive and naive” about the dangers posed by Iran, a day after the agencies gave their annual assessment of the biggest threats to the U.S.Lawmakers and former intelligence officials condemned Mr. Trump’s attack, calling it inappropriate and dangerous. But the president’s defenders noted the threat assessment came from the very national security establishment the president has vowed to disrupt. Side effect: President Ashraf Ghani of Afghanistan has offered Mr. Trump reduced costs for keeping U.S. troops in the country. Afghan officials are worried about the effects of an American withdrawal and a resurgent Taliban.Notable: The intelligence chiefs pointed out growing cyberthreats from Russia. Mr. Trump said on Wednesday that he wouldn’t intervene with the Justice Department’s decision-making process about releasing the special counsel’s report.Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, has called privacy a “fundamental human right.” On Wednesday, he and his company took aim at Facebook for violating Apple’s rules with a research app that allowed Facebook to snoop on users’ online activity. “The move is the clearest sign yet that the cold war between Facebook and Apple over data use and privacy is heating up,” our tech columnist writes.Another angle: Facebook reported record profit and 1.52 billion daily active users in the fourth quarter of 2018, suggesting that advertisers and users haven’t been deterred by a string of scandals.President Nicolás Maduro of Venezuela said on Wednesday that an American intervention in his country “would lead to a Vietnam worse than they can imagine.”Washington has recognized Venezuela’s opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, as the country’s acting president and imposed sanctions in an effort to pressure Mr. Maduro. Go deeper: Mr. Maduro has called on a special police force to crack down on protesters, a potential sign of the strained loyalties inside the military he once relied on.Opposition’s perspective: Ending Mr. Maduro’s tenure requires the support of pro-democratic governments, institutions and individuals around the world, Mr. Guaidó wrote in an Op-Ed for The Times.“Nothing has brought the European Union together quite as much as Britain’s chaotic breakdown,” our chief diplomatic correspondent in Europe writes.When Britain voted to leave the bloc in 2016, European officials feared other countries would seek to withdraw. Britain now serves as a cautionary tale, though, and analysts tend to agree that the bloc will fare far better than Britain will.The impact: Retailers warned this week that the country’s food supply would be the first to feel the effects of leaving the European Union without a deal. Some businesses have been stockpiling products, exploring new shipping routes and making backup plans. A remote part of the steppes of Central Asia is inhabited by a small number of hardy souls, like the horsemen above. But a transformation looms.The Chinese government plans to turn the region, which straddles China’s border with Kazakhstan, into a major hub of its trillion-dollar Belt and Road Initiative. Fed’s reversal: The Federal Reserve left its benchmark interest rate unchanged on Wednesday, signaling that its push for higher interest rates might end sooner than expected. Factory plans in doubt: The Taiwan electronics maker Foxconn is reassessing plans for a $10 billion plant in Wisconsin that President Trump had hailed as an example of a revival for American factory jobs.Marathon church service ends: A 96-day vigil in the Netherlands came to an end after its organizers received confirmation that a family of refugees sheltering inside would no longer face immediate deportation. Dutch law forbids the police from interrupting church services. State of the Union address: An undocumented immigrant who worked at one of President Trump’s golf clubs in New Jersey  has been invited to attend his speech next week.Snapshot: Above, asylum seekers from Central America returned to Tijuana, Mexico, from the U.S. on Wednesday while their cases are processed.Late-night comedy: The weather was on the minds of all the hosts, including Jimmy Fallon: “Midwesterners were so upset, they almost started cursing. ‘Gosh darn it! It’s flipping freezing!’” What we’re listening to: The “Justice in America” podcast. “It is humbling how much I learn from this every week,” writes Caity Weaver, a writer at The Times. “I tend to traffic in fun facts but it is this weekly dose of regular facts that actually changes the way I think.”Cook: Looking for a gluten-free treat? Flourless cocoa cookies will do the trick.Read: The 12-year-old detective Flavia de Luce returns in Alan Bradley’s “The Golden Tresses of the Dead” on our hardcover fiction and combined print and e-book fiction best-seller lists.Watch: “Black Panther” will be playing for free in AMC theaters all over the country, starting Friday. Here are more tips on seeing Oscar-nominated films.Listen: “Daddi” is from Cherry Glazerr’s “Stuffed & Ready,” an album that has far more quandaries than answers, Jon Pareles writes.Smarter Living: Need to make sure your food avoids allergens? It’s easy to tell by the label when milk, eggs or nuts are in a product, but after that, it’s harder. Reach out directly to the manufacturer if you need to, and avoid items with labels that say “may contain” or “processed in the same facility as.” You can also look for foods made in allergen-free plants.We also have a look at your brain and life if you quit Facebook. The word “vortex,” derived from the Latin for “to turn,” has been in use since at least the 1600s, according to the Oxford English Dictionary. It’s cited in centuries-old scientific theories to mean a swirl of something around a central axis.The first pairing of “polar” and “vortex” is widely credited to an article published in 1853, in a magazine that Charles Dickens edited. The author, John Capper, was a merchant and journalist who lived in what’s now Sri Lanka.His article, “Air Maps,” was a somewhat florid account of the state of the relatively new science regarding wind, a crucial factor for nautical travel and trade in the era before marine engines.The patterns of the Earth’s major winds could be tracked, Capper wrote, and one “whirled about the pole in a continued circular gale: at last, reaching the great polar vortex.”These days, we know the polar vortex as those swirling winds breaking out of the polar region, bringing frigid temperatures south.That’s it for this briefing. A happy birthday to Jackie Robinson. The man who broke Major League Baseball’s color line in 1947 would have been 100 today. See you next time.— ChrisThank youInyoung Kang helped compile today’s briefing. Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and James K. Williamson provided today’s break from the news. James also wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” In today’s episode, Bob Woodward, the Washington Post reporter, discusses an error that threatened to derail his reporting about Watergate.• Starting this week, we now provide transcripts with episodes of “The Daily.”• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Nimble for one’s age (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Daisuke Wakabayashi and John KoblinCUPERTINO, Calif. — Apple unveiled a new video streaming service on Monday with a parade of celebrities rarely seen on a stage outside of Hollywood’s awards season, with heavyweight directors like Steven Spielberg and J. J. Abrams and stars like Octavia Spencer and Jennifer Aniston.Oprah Winfrey even served as the closer for the nearly two-hour event at the Steve Jobs Theater on Apple’s campus. “They’re in a billion pockets, y’all,” Ms. Winfrey said of Apple’s global reach. “A billion pockets.”As enthusiastic as the entertainment industry appears to be to work with Apple, it is increasingly clear that Apple needs Hollywood. After years of record profits, the company is slowing down. Phone sales are cooling, and despite the relative popularity of products like the Apple Watch, the next big thing has eluded the Silicon Valley giant.Now, short of another game-changing gadget and facing tough competition from rivals like Amazon and Netflix, Apple is trying to make sure you never leave all those Apple devices you have acquired over the years. The company unveiled an expansive strategy to push consumers to do more than just buy its hardware products. It has plans for new monthly subscription services for TV programming, video games and news, as well as a new credit card.The new services represent an evolution of Apple’s business. For years, Apple focused mainly on selling devices, counting on consumers to upgrade phones and tablets every few years. Now the company is keying on selling content and services for its roughly 1.4 billion active devices, which include Apple TV boxes, Apple Watches, Mac computers and iPads.The streaming service is called Apple TV Plus. After years of speculation about what an Apple alternative to Netflix might look like, the company offered few details about the new offering — but plenty of razzle dazzle. Reese Witherspoon, Steve Carell, Kumail Nanjiani, Jason Momoa and Alfre Woodard — even Big Bird from Sesame Street — also joined Apple executives on the stage.At the heart of Apple TV Plus will be new original programs. It will not carry advertising and will begin this fall in more than 100 countries. It will also include programs from other television networks like HBO, Showtime, Starz and CBS.But some of the biggest questions going into the Apple event were not answered, starting with price. The stars talked about their new programs, but the broad story lines of the shows were already known.Mr. Spielberg was the first Hollywood celebrity to take the stage, and he received the morning’s first standing ovation. “This is my first time at Apple,” he said.Mr. Spielberg was also speaking for many in the entertainment industry who were making their first trip to Apple’s campus 300 miles north from Los Angeles. Since October 2017, Apple has spent well over $1 billion on original programming. Five shows have completed filming, and another half-dozen will be finished in the coming months. Apple has ordered about two dozen series altogether.But Apple is coming late to the game. Netflix has been making original programming for seven years and will spend at least $10 billion on content this year. Amazon and Hulu have also made tremendous inroads with the industry.Apple’s entertainment foray could also lead to a culture clash. Silicon Valley and Hollywood operate in distinctly different ways: Apple prides itself on secrecy, while Hollywood runs on a wealth of information. Perhaps aware of this sensitivity, Netflix’s chief executive, Reed Hastings, began describing his company last week as an entertainment company instead of a tech company.Apple’s streaming music service has 56 million subscribers. It offers additional cloud storage for a monthly fee, and it takes a cut of the money spent on apps running on its devices, as well as a sliver of digital payments made by iPhones. Apple generated $10.9 billion from services in the last quarter of 2018, compared to $73.4 billion from hardware sales.The video service is the linchpin of Apple’s broader services push. In addition to customers paying $1,000 every two or three years for a new iPhone, Apple hopes they will also pay $10, $20, $30 or $40 a month a one-stop shop for content for all their devices.“In essence Apple is seeking to become a Netflix of everything in services; music, news and magazines, video and games,” said Paolo Pescatore, a technology, media and telecoms analyst at PP Foresight.Apple said its Apple News Plus subscription will include access to 300 magazines, including The New Yorker, National Geographic and InStyle. It will also feature newspapers like The Los Angeles Times and The Wall Street Journal. The subscription will cost $9.99 a month and is available beginning today in the United States and Canada.The subscription service builds on a free news app that the company released in late 2015 and comes installed on the company’s iOS software. Apple said about five billion articles are read monthly on Apple News.The price to be part of Apple’s paid news offering is steep. Apple is taking a 50 percent cut of the subscriptions, with the publications splitting what’s left over based on readership. Apple’s cut for news is larger than the 30 percent it takes for subscriptions bought in the App Store. Publishers expressed concern that Apple would maintain access to important consumer data such as credit cards and email addresses as part of the deal.The Wall Street Journal said its business stories and analysis would remain exclusive to its paying subscribers, but it sees an opportunity to reach a new category of readers for general interest news. The newspaper said it would add to its newsroom to support Apple News Plus. The New York Times and The Washington Post decided to not join the service.For video games, the company said it would start a subscription service called Apple Arcade this fall. It did not offer any pricing details for the service, but the company said this will allow people to try out new games. Apple said it will help foot some of the development costs for game developers.Apple also unveiled a credit card called Apple Card. Working in tandem with Goldman Sachs, the company said the new credit card is meant to work mainly on the iPhone — users can apply for the card on the phone and be instantly approved. It will reap bigger rewards if the consumer uses the card on Apple Pay, the company’s digital payment system.The credit card offers 2 percent cash back for spending on Apple Pay. Apple touted how it simplified credit card rewards with “daily cash” deposited back into the digital wallet on the iPhone shortly after purchasing an item.After its barrage of announcements, Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, introduced Ms. Winfrey. Apple signed to a deal with her in June 2018. Ms. Winfrey said she was making two documentaries for Apple’s new video service and bringing her book club to the company and turn it into the “biggest, most vibrant, most stimulating” book club on the planet.Follow Daisuke Wakabayashi and John Koblin on Twitter: @daiwaka and @koblinAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byOn Politics With Lisa LererBy Lisa LererHi. Welcome to On Politics, your guide to the day in national politics. I’m Lisa Lerer, your host.[Get On Politics delivered to your inbox.]As Beto O’Rourke moves closer to a presidential run, the unconventional way he’s spent the four months since losing his Senate bid (Metallica concerts! Road trips! Viral Instagrams!) is raising some concerns in the Democratic Party, as I wrote about today with my colleague Matt Flegenheimer.But there’s another, perhaps slightly less-covered piece of Mr. O’Rourke’s rollout story: Female Democratic strategists have grown increasingly frustrated as they’ve watched Mr. O’Rourke jump on his single-speed bike, read his emotional posts from his road trip and seen him slip into the premiere of a documentary about his Senate campaign.Imagine, they say, if Beto were Betsy. What would the reception have been if a female candidate left her three small children home and spent several weeks traveling the country, posting stream-of-consciousness diary entries? Or if she chose to forgo a Senate race that would provide a greater opportunity for victory?In quiet and not-so-quiet complaints, Democratic strategists argue that the relatively positive reception to Mr. O’Rourke’s untraditional approach is evidence, yet again, of the deep double standard female candidates face. While his defenders argue that Mr. O’Rourke can’t be blamed for gender dynamics he didn’t create, his critics say he is being given a benefit of the doubt that wouldn’t be extended to a woman or a candidate of color.“Maybe I’d been hoping for some kind of connection that day and hadn’t found it,” he wrote in one of those diary posts, from Ulysses, Kan. “I called Amy. Kids were in the car, she was a little distracted, we didn’t connect either. Maybe you could meet people at a bar she said as we hung up.”Try to picture Senators Elizabeth Warren or Kamala Harris publishing those words. The female presidential candidates, it’s probably worth noting, all pursued a highly conventional approach, jumping into the race early, rolling out policy plans and hosting events in key primary states.But the contrast that’s most often given is Stacey Abrams, whose near-miss bid for governor of Georgia earned a higher percentage of the vote than Mr. O’Rourke’s run in Texas, but who isn’t being discussed in the same way as a viable presidential candidate. She’s under immense pressure to pursue a Senate race in 2020. (Today, her political adviser pushed back on the idea that she has ruled out a presidential bid.)“If a woman was presented with a similar choice: Do that less ambitious but better for the party thing, versus more ambitious but longer shot thing, I don’t see people being super understanding when she takes the latter,” said Jess McIntosh, a Democratic strategist and former Hillary Clinton aide.We don’t know whether that sense of a free pass will translate beyond the small group of Democrats following every turn of the 2020 race. Or whether it will persist once Mr. O’Rourke actually starts, well, running. Much of that will probably be tied to how successful he is as a candidate.[Sign up here to get On Politics in your inbox.]____________________Given that we’re talking about double standards today, I highly recommend this tongue-in-cheek take on Senator Sherrod Brown’s “likability issue” by HuffPost’s Jennifer Bendery.”Have you heard the guy’s voice? It’s gravelly. It’s garbled. His Senate floor speeches sound like someone just passed the mic to Oscar the Grouch. And then there’s his fashion sense. Brown wears rumpled suits, sometimes with a tie and sometimes without.”And Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, who has put gender front and center in her campaign, may face her own #MeToo issue: Politico details the story of a former aide who resigned in protest of how Ms. Gillibrand and her office handled her sexual harassment claims.____________________Drop us a line!We want to hear from our readers. Have a question? We’ll try to answer it. Have a comment? We’re all ears. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________The field of Democratic candidates is in constant flux these days, and it’s kind of tedious to type it all out every time someone new jumps in the race. So here’s a rundown of everyone who has recently said that they’re running, sitting it out or still thinking it over, organized by emoji.Jay Inslee, governor of WashingtonJohn Hickenlooper, former governor of ColoradoMichael Bloomberg, former mayor of New YorkHillary Clinton, former senator and presidential candidateEric Holder, former attorney generalSherrod Brown, senator from OhioJeff Merkley, senator from OregonBeto O’Rourke, former congressman from TexasJoe Biden, former vice presidentMichael Bennet, senator from ColoradoSteve Bullock, governor of MontanaStacey Abrams, former Georgia state represenatative____________________This is The Soapbox, a forum for you to share your thoughts with us and your fellow On Politics readers.Last week’s story on the statements made by Representative Ilhan Omar, and the Democrats’ response to them, clearly resonated with readers. We got over 100 emails, covering views on all sides of the issue and coming from across the country (and even a few from around the globe). Some readers felt that Ms. Omar’s statements, regardless of possible anti-Semitism, addressed an issue that is in dire need of serious political debate.Jean Davis, Washington State:I am horrified that the moderate, older Dems wanted to rebuke Ms. Omar. Her comments were perhaps ill-advised, but why should she be singled out when comments made by other public figures are much more ugly and yet are let slide?People of different generations were raised with completely differing views of Israel — my generation, the baby boomers, were taught to revere the strong new state of Israel, while people now in their 20s and 30s see the damage Israel is causing the Palestinians. Ms. Omar is of that generation and also an immigrant, and must be given some slack. Above all her First Amendment rights must NOT be trampled by Democrats!Malcolm Burnstein, California:Here is an 85-year-old Jew who strongly supports Ms. Omar, and who agrees with her that the Israeli and Aipac policies are racist and anti-Arab. If Aipac was not so cash heavy, Congress would judge its policy on the merits, and it would have little weight; and, likewise, Israeli discriminatory policy towards its Arab citizens and neighbors would merit criticism and not acceptance. At my age I witnessed the Nazi policy of murder toward Jews and I had hoped that the Jewish state would know, as no one else, how wrong and muddle headed those policies were. Alas, the Jewish state seems to have learned little from the far-to-recent past.Many others felt that Ms. Omar’s statements were plainly anti-Semitic, and that the Democratic reaction was not strong enough.Rachel Reiss, New York:Passing a resolution condemning “all hate” in response to a specific instance of pointed anti-Semitism, especially in the midst of an undeniable and disturbing upswing in anti-Semitic attacks both globally and nationally, is like passing a resolution that “all lives matter” in response to police violence against black men; it says the exact opposite of what it purports to say.David Friedland, Nevada:As a lifelong Democrat, I was upset at Ilhan Omar’s blatantly anti-Semitic, age-old canard about Jewish people having loyalty to another country. And I am equally upset at my party cowering to an increasingly tyrannical minority and failing to pass a specific resolution to a specific comment.Does not Congresswoman Omar know about Goebbels and his usage of propaganda such as “the insidious international Jewish financiers,” or the danger of “Jewish penetration of law, medicine, property, and the arts.” Has she not studied history and the power of the spoken word on a national platform?No bigotry should ever come close to being tolerated. Nor should hesitancy in unequivocally condemning a specific outburst of bigotry such as displayed by Congresswoman Omar ever be tolerated as well.And then there were those whose concerns were not the content of Ms. Omar’s statements, but the political fallout that they could have.Dave Stoller, Arizona:I applaud the enthusiasm of the congressional “newbies.” However, I say to each of them, be guided by this reality: you don’t know everything, you can’t do everything, especially all at once. You are the new kids on the block. You each need to learn how to be an effective legislator, how to communicate, how to work with other legislators, even those with whom you often disagree. Succeeding in Congress may require compromise, even with those you don’t like.Arnie Serota, Hawaii:The Democrats need to get their act together and stop infighting on divisive issues. The number one theme, for the time being, should be the defeat of Donald Trump and the far right.If you want to share your thoughts, send us an email: onpolitics@nytimes.com.____________________• With a tough election looming for Benjamin Netanyahu, The Times digs into the mutually beneficial “feedback loop” between him and President Trump.• Silicon Valley searches for an IRL monument of its own.• “No trash is as glorious as Mardi Gras trash.” Bloomberg Businessweek on what, exactly, happens to all those beads.____________________Last week, President Trump called Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, “Tim Apple.” It seemed like a lighthearted gaffe, the internet chuckled for a moment, then everyone moved on. Well, apparently not everyone._____________________Were you forwarded this newsletter? Subscribe here to get it delivered to your inbox.Thanks for reading. Politics is more than what goes on inside the White House. On Politics brings you the people, issues and ideas reshaping our world.Is there anything you think we’re missing? Anything you want to see more of? We’d love to hear from you. Email us at onpolitics@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Nicole PerlrothSAN FRANCISCO — On Jan. 19, Grant Thompson, a 14-year-old in Arizona, made an unexpected discovery: Using FaceTime, Apple’s video chatting software, he could eavesdrop on his friend’s phone before his friend had even answered the call.His mother, Michele Thompson, sent a video of the hack to Apple the next day, warning the company of a “major security flaw” that exposed millions of iPhone users to eavesdropping. When she didn’t hear from Apple Support, she exhausted every other avenue she could, including emailing and faxing Apple’s security team, and posting to Twitter and Facebook. On Friday, Apple’s product security team encouraged Ms. Thompson, a lawyer, to set up a developer account to send a formal bug report.But it wasn’t until Monday, more than a week after Ms. Thompson first notified Apple of the problem, that Apple raced to disable Group FaceTime and said it was working on a fix. The company reacted after a separate developer reported the FaceTime flaw and it was written about on 9to5mac.com, a news site for Apple fans, in an article that went viral.The bug, and Apple’s slow response to patching it, have renewed concerns about the company’s commitment to security, even though it regularly advertises its bug reward program and boasts about the safety of its products. Hours before Apple’s statement addressing the bug Monday, Tim Cook, the company’s chief executive, tweeted that “we all must insist on action and reform for vital privacy protections.”The FaceTime problem has already been branded “FacePalm” by security researchers, who say Apple’s security team should have known better. Rarely is there a software flaw that grants such high-level remote access and is so easy to manipulate: By adding a second person to a group FaceTime call, you can capture the audio and video of the first person called before that person answers the phone, or even if the person never answers.“If these kinds of bugs are slipping through,” said Patrick Wardle, the co-founder of Digita Security, which focuses on Apple-related security, “you have to wonder if there are other problematic bugs that other hackers are exploiting that should have been caught.”[Read how to disable FaceTime to avoid the eavesdropping bug.]On Monday, Apple said it was aware of the issue and had “identified a fix that will be released in a software update later this week.”But the company has not addressed how the flaw passed through quality assurance, why it was so slow to respond to Ms. Thompson’s urgent warnings, or whether it intends to reward the teenager whose mother raced to alert the company to the bug in the first place.A bug this easy to exploit is every company’s worst security nightmare and every spy agency, cybercriminal and stalker’s dream. In emails to Apple’s product security team, Ms. Thompson noted that she and her son were just everyday citizens who believed they had uncovered a flaw that could undermine national security.“My fear is that this flaw could be used for nefarious purposes,” she wrote in a letter provided to The New York Times. “Although this certainly raises privacy and security issues for private individuals, there is the potential that this could impact national security if, for example, government members were to fall victim to this eavesdropping flaw.”Unknown to Ms. Thompson, there is a healthy market for bugs and the code to weaponize them, which allow governments, defense contractors and cybercriminals to invisibly spy on people’s devices without their knowledge, capturing everything from their locations to information caught on their microphones and cameras. The FaceTime flaw, and other Apple bugs, can fetch tens of thousands, if not hundreds of thousands or even millions of dollars, from dozens of brokers. Those brokers then sell those bugs for ever higher sums to governments and intelligence and law enforcement agencies around the world. On the seedier side of the spectrum are brokers who will sell these tools on the dark web to the highest bidder.The only catch is that hackers must promise never to disclose the flaw to the vendor for patching, so that buyers can keep their access.The market for Apple flaws has soared in the post-Edward Snowden era as technology makers include more security, like end-to-end encryption, to thwart would-be spies. This month, Zerodium, a well-known broker and security firm, raised its reward for an Apple iOS bug to $2 million.In part to compete in that market, and reward those who do right by the company by notifying it of potentially lucrative bugs, Apple announced its own bounty program in 2016 — the last of the Silicon Valley companies to do so.At a hacker conference that year in Las Vegas, Apple made a surprise announcement: It said it would start paying rewards as high as $200,000 to hackers who responsibly turned over crucial flaws in its products. But the bounty program has been slow going, in part, hackers say, because they can make multiples of that bounty on the black market, and because Apple has taken its time rewarding them for reporting problems.The FacePalm bug is a particularly egregious case, researchers say, not just because it was discovered by a teenager simply trying to use his phone, but because it allowed full microphone and video access.“This is a bug that Apple’s Q.A., should have caught,” Mr. Wardle said. “And where there’s smoke, there’s almost always fire.”Bug brokers say FacePalm, while impressive, would not have brought a top price because it leaves a record of the attack. The flaw works only if you FaceTime the person you want to capture audio and video for, notifying your target of the call.Bugs that fetch $2 million or $3 million on the black market leave no trace, work more than 99.5 percent of the time and work instantaneously, said Adriel Desautels, the chief executive of Netragard, a company that helps firms protect their software.In this case, Mr. Desautels said, FacePalm is not as dangerous as a flaw that can covertly track someone’s location, turn on that person’s camera and capture video without a trace.But, he added, “it’s pretty good for a high schooler.”Follow Nicole Perlroth on Twitter: @nicoleperlroth.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressApril 14: Country singer Loretta Lynn is 87. Actress Julie Christie is 79. Guitarist Ritchie Blackmore is 74. Actor John Shea (""Gossip Girl,"" ''Lois and Clark"") is 70. Actor Peter Capaldi (""Dr. Who,"" ''The Musketeers"") is 61. Actor-turned-racecar driver Brian Forster (""The Partridge Family"") is 59. Actor Brad Garrett (""Everybody Loves Raymond"") is 59. Actor Robert Carlyle (""Once Upon A Time"") is 58. Singer-guitarist John Bell of Widespread Panic is 57. Actress Catherine Dent (""The Shield"") is 54. Drummer Barrett Martin (Screaming Trees) is 52. Actor Anthony Michael Hall is 51. Actor Adrien Brody is 46. Singer David Miller of Il Divo is 46. Rapper Da Brat is 45. Actor Antwon Tanner (""One Tree Hill"") is 44. Actress Sarah Michelle Gellar is 42. Actor Rob McElhenney (""It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia"") is 42. Singer Win Butler of Arcade Fire is 39. Actor Claire Coffee (""Grimm"") is 39. Actor Nick Krause (""The Descendants"") is 27. Actor Graham Phillips (""The Good Wife"") is 26. Actress Skyler Samuels (""Scream Queens"") is 25. Actress Abigail Breslin (""Little Miss Sunshine"") is 23.April 15: Actress Claudia Cardinale (""Son of the Pink Panther"") is 81. Singer-guitarist Dave Edmunds is 76. Actor Michael Tucci (""Diagnosis Murder"") is 73. Actress Lois Chiles (""Austin Powers"") is 72. Actress Amy Wright is 69. Actress Emma Thompson is 60. Singer Samantha Fox is 53. Guitarist Ed O'Brien of Radiohead is 51. Actor Danny Pino (""Cold Case"") is 45. Country singer Chris Stapleton is 41. Actor Luke Evans (""The Hobbit"") is 40. Drummer Patrick Carney of The Black Keys is 39. Bassist Zach Carothers of Portugal. The Man is 38. Actor Seth Rogen is 37. Actress Alice Braga (""I Am Legend"") is 36. Singer-songwriter Margo Price is 36. Drummer De'Mar Hamilton of Plain White T's is 35. Actress Samira Wiley (""Orange Is The New Black"") is 32. Actress Leonie Elliott (""Call the Midwife"") is 31. Actress Emma Watson (""Harry Potter"" movies) is 29. Actress Maisie Williams (""Game of Thrones"") is 22.April 16: Actor Peter Mark Richman (""Dynasty"") is 92. Singer Bobby Vinton is 84. Midnight Oil singer-turned-politician Peter Garrett is 66. Actress Ellen Barkin is 65. Actor Michael Gill (""House of Cards"") is 59. Singer-bassist Jason Scheff (Chicago) is 57. Singer Jimmy Osmond is 56. Singer David Pirner of Soul Asylum is 55. Actor-comedian Martin Lawrence is 54. Actor Jon Cryer is 54. Actor Peter Billingsley (""A Christmas Story"") is 48. Actor Lukas Haas is 43. Broadway actress Kelli O'Hara is 43. Actress Sadie Sink (""Stranger Things"") is 17.April 17: Actor David Bradley (""Game of Thrones"") is 77. Musician Jan Hammer is 71. Actress Olivia Hussey is 68. Actor Clarke Peters (""Treme"") is 67. Rapper Afrika Bambaataa is 62. Actor Sean Bean (""Lord of the Rings"") is 60. Actor Joel Murray (""Dharma and Greg,"" ''The Artist"") is 57. Singer Maynard James Keenan of Tool and of Puscifer is 55. Actress Lela Rochon is 55. Actor William Mapother (""Lost"") is 54. Actress Leslie Bega (""The Sopranos"") is 52. Actor Henry Ian Cusick (""Scandal,"" ''Lost"") is 52. Actress Kimberly Elise is 52. Singer Liz Phair is 52. Rapper-actor Redman is 49. Actress Jennifer Garner is 47. Singer Victoria Beckham of the Spice Girls is 45. Actress Lindsay Korman (""Passions"") is 41. Actor Tate Ellington (""Quantico"") is 40. Actor Charlie Hofheimer (""24: Legacy"") is 38. Actress Rooney Mara (""The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo"") is 34. Actress Dee Dee Davis (""The Bernie Mac Show"") is 23.April 18: Actor Robert Hooks is 82. Actress Hayley Mills is 73. Actor James Woods is 72. Actress Cindy Pickett (""Ferris Bueller's Day Off"") is 72. Keyboardist Walt Richmond of The Tractors is 72. Bassist Jim Scholten of Sawyer Brown is 67. Actor Rick Moranis is 66. Actor Eric Roberts is 63. Actress Melody Thomas Scott (""Young and the Restless"") is 63. Actor John James (""Dynasty,"" ''The Colbys"") is 63. Bassist Les Pattinson of Echo and the Bunnymen is 61. Actress Jane Leeves (""Hot In Cleveland,"" ''Fraiser"") is 58. Ventriloquist Jeff Dunham is 57. Talk show host Conan O'Brien is 56. Actor Eric McCormack (""Will and Grace"") is 56. Actress Maria Bello is 52. Actress Mary Birdsong (""Reno 911!"") is 51. Actor David Hewlett (""Stargate: SG-1"") is 51. Actress Fedro Starr (""Moesha"") is 48. Actor David Tennant (""Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire"") is 48. Guitarist Mark Tremonti of Creed and of Alter Bridge is 45. Singer Trina of Trina and Tamara is 45. Actress Melissa Joan Hart (""Sabrina the Teenage Witch"") is 43. Actor Bryce Johnson (""Pretty Little Liars"") is 42. TV personality Kourtney Kardashian is 40. Actress America Ferrera (""Ugly Betty"") is 35. Actor Tom Hughes (""Victoria"") is 34. Actress Ellen Woglom (""Marvel's Inhumans"") is 32. Actress Vanessa Kirby (""The Crown"") is 31. Actress Alia Shawkat (""Arrested Development"") is 30. Actress Britt Robertson (""Under the Dome"") is 29. Actress Chloe Bennet (""Marvel's Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.,"" ''Nashville"") is 27. Singer Nathan Sykes of The Wanted is 26. Actor Moises Arias (""Hannah Montana"") is 25.April 19: Actress Elinor Donahue (""Father Knows Best"") is 82. Keyboardist Alan Price of The Animals is 77. Actor Tim Curry is 73. Singer Mark ""Flo"" Volman of The Turtles is 72. Actor Tony Plana (""Ugly Betty"") is 67. Death Row Records co-founder Suge Knight is 54. Country singer Bekka Bramlett of Bekka and Billy is 51. Actress Kim Hawthorne (""Greenleaf"") is 51. Actress Ashley Judd is 51. Singer Luis Miguel is 49. Actress Jennifer Esposito (""Blue Bloods"") is 47. Actress Jennifer Taylor (""Two and a Half Men"") is 47. Singer Madeleine Peyroux is 45. Actor James Franco is 41. Actress Kate Hudson is 40. Actor Hayden Christensen (""Star Wars Episodes II and III"") is 38. Actress Catalina Sandino Moreno (""Che,"" ''Maria Full of Grace"") is 38. Actress Ali Wong (""American Housewife"") is 37. Actress Victoria Yeates (""Call the Midwife"") is 36. Drummer Steve Johnson of Alabama Shakes is 34.April 20: Actor George Takei (""Star Trek"") is 82. Singer Johnny Tillotson is 81. Actor Ryan O'Neal is 78. Keyboardist Craig Frost of Grand Funk Railroad is 71. Actor Gregory Itzin (""24"") is 71. Actress Veronica Cartwright (""Aliens"") is 70. Actress Jessica Lange is 70. Actor Clint Howard is 60. Actor Crispin Glover is 55. Actor Andy Serkis (""Lord of the Rings"") is 55. Country singer Wade Hayes is 50. Actor Shemar Moore (""Criminal Minds"") is 49. Actress Carmen Electra is 47. Actor Joey Lawrence (""Blossom,"" ''Brotherly Love"") is 43. Multi-instrumentalist Clay Cook of the Zac Brown Band is 41.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.In a sharp reversal of the stance it took just week ago, the Fed’s chairman, Jerome Powell, said yesterday it had “the luxury of patience” in deciding whether to raise rates again, writes the NYT’s Binyamin Appelbaum.The news: The Fed left its benchmark interest rate unchanged, a decision that was widely expected. What surprised markets was the indication that rates, which are in a range of 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent, would stay put for some time.The reaction: Mr. Powell’s comments soothed Wall Street, sending stocks higher, something President Trump cheered on Twitter. But the U-turn puzzled some investors and one warned of a slowing economy.More: In a separate statement, the Fed signaled that it might reduce “quantitative tightening,” the policy of selling its bond portfolio, which could be a challenge for Mr. Powell. Here’s a guide to what’s going on.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Advertisers pay for space expecting to reach potential spenders.Facebook, which says it has access to 2.32 billion people, seems like a prime avenue of exposure. But how many are spammers, scammers or flat-out fakes? Jack Nicas, who explored the social media network’s fluctuating, confusing account estimates, reckons even Facebook may not be sure.Yesterday, the company said in tiny lettering at the bottom of a slide about its earnings that it believes that there are 116 million fake accounts on its site, a 36 percent increase from 2017’s figure, which was itself 359 percent higher than the number disclosed in 2016. Its estimated number of duplicates rose 20 percent year over year, to 255 million.How many unauthorized accounts does Facebook take down each quarter? Enough to encompass as much of 35 percent of the network’s active users, data suggests. And some analysts suspect that the company’s user counts involve more guesswork than it lets on.But the money keeps coming in: Facebook emerged from a string of privacy scandals last year with a 30 percent boost in revenue and a 61 percent upswing in profit. Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, confirmed that Facebook plans to integrate the technical infrastructure of its WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger apps by the end of the year or by early 2020.A bot scandal reaches a conclusion: The attorney general of New York reached a settlement with Devumi, a company that sold hundreds of millions of fake followers on Twitter and other platforms before going out of business last year.Is Apple’s Tim Cook Facebook’s privacy watchdog? After determining that the social network had violated the rules of an Apple developer program, Mr. Cook moved to block access. Our columnist Kevin Roose wonders whether Mr. Cook is becoming a technology regulator of last resort.The Arctic air mass sweeping across the Midwest and the Northeast brought a deep and sometimes deadly chill that caused traffic to snarl and the ground to crack.It is so cold that shops have closed, restaurants have shuttered and petting farm owners are struggling. Any lasting effect on commerce should be slight, however.It is so cold that, in Wisconsin, beer distributors stopped truck deliveries out of fear that their cargo would freeze solid. Amtrak canceled trains. Six in ten flights into and out of Chicago were canceled. Airlines have waived fees for changing flights. One towing company in Michigan received 40 calls for help in three hours.It is so cold that all of Cargill’s grain plants in the Midwest are closed, some shifts at a Tyson Foods pork plant in Iowa have been canceled and the hog slaughter has paused at a Hormel Foods facility in Minnesota.It is so cold that Disney on Ice has called off a performance in Chicago.It is so cold that General Motors has suspended production at several plants in Michigan because of an emergency appeal by the local utility, overwhelmed with heating demand.It is so cold that Republicans and Democrats are reaching across the aisle in Washington so they can huddle together for warmth. Just kidding.Facebook had company from other tech firms when reporting its earnings yesterday.Nokia, which now focuses on telecom equipment, warned that it would have a slow start to 2019, though it expects more business from companies building 5G mobile networks later in the year. Samsung, whose operating profit plunged 29 percent amid a decline in demand for memory chips, also said earnings this year might struggle. PayPal disappointed analysts, too, even as its revenue rose.But Qualcomm beat Wall Street expectations and issued a forecast that assuaged some concerns about a weak smartphone market in China. Other companies also had good news.Microsoft, often considered an indicator of the broader market, said that its commercial and consumer businesses were doing well, with revenue and profit increasing more than 10 percent from a year earlier. Its continued shift to cloud computing has placed it within striking distance of Amazon, which leads the field.Alibaba, China’s largest e-commerce business, said that its earnings growth sank last quarter and that its revenue, which rose 41 percent, had increased at its slowest pace since early 2016. Executives said that, while “the slowdown of macro might cause concerns in the market,” the company had minimal exposure to the trade war with Washington and e-commerce was healthier than the overall Chinese economy.Tesla, the electric carmaker, reported its second straight quarterly profit, but said that its $139 million in fourth quarter earnings was less than what it brought in during the third quarter. The company expects to deliver as many as 400,000 cars this year, up from 245,000 last year. And it said it had $3.7 billion in cash to carry it through a $920 million bond payment in March.Foxconn, the Taiwanese electronics behemoth, is rethinking its plan to build a $10 billion plant in Wisconsin with 13,000 jobs, a proposal that was hailed by President Trump. It’s now considering a shift toward research, underscoring the difficult economics of manufacturing in the United States, write the NYT’s Natalie Kitroeff, Patricia Cohen and Monica Davey:That turn runs counter to Mr. Trump’s vision for the project, which he had cited as a milestone in reversing the decline in factory jobs. The twist also brought new friction in Wisconsin, where the initiative has been politically fraught from the start because of its billions of dollars in tax subsidies.Foxconn said that it remained committed to creating 13,000 jobs, but economists questioned how such a large work force could be created if the plant’s focus was on other areas.A lack of clarity over the terms of Britain’s looming departure from the European Union has British businesses stockpiling products and delaying investments, writes the NYT’s Peter Goodman.The options: Parliament may yet approve Prime Minister Theresa May’s unpopular exit deal — she survived a critical vote on Tuesday that could have derailed it — especially if the alternative is a tumultuous no-deal departure.The reaction: Companies must plan for outcomes both wildly unknown and potentially damaging. They are making backup plans while having no idea how it will end.The cost: By one estimate, the British economy is already 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if voters had backed E.U. membership in a 2016 referendum. The main culprit is uncertainty. Investment in the auto industry plunged last year. The cost of separation is apparent in finance, housing and other areas, too. Food retailers have warned of delays and shortages.More European news: Two engines of the eurozone economy, France and Germany, are cooling, a trend that threatens to deepen the pain across the Continent. Italy fell into a recession in the last quarter of 2018 after its economy shrank by 0.2 percent.Zach Kirkhorn will become Tesla’s chief financial officer after Deepak Ahuja retires. (Bloomberg)Deals • General Electric said it would merge its battery storage and electrical grid units into its wind turbine and hydropower business, and suitors are gathering for the jet leasing unit of its lending business, GE Capital. (Reuters, WSJ)• United Natural Foods accused Goldman Sachs of improperly extracting more than $200 million while advising it on its acquisition of the grocery chain Supervalu. (WSJ)• Elliott Management, an activist hedge fund, is making a push into full-blown takeovers. (WSJ)Tech • Apple is said to be planning a more powerful 3-D camera for iPhones, to help with augmented reality plans. (Bloomberg)• Lyft sued New York State over its minimum wage for drivers. (WSJ)Politics and policy• Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, approves of higher taxes for the rich, if the revenue is spent in a way that he considers wise. (Bloomberg)• President Trump called top intelligence officials who had contradicted him “naïve.” (NYT)• Starting in April, 5,340 more immigrants with an advanced degree from an American university may be selected for a coveted visa. (WSJ)• Lawmakers introduced legislation to limit Mr. Trump’s power to impose import tariffs. (Reuters)Best of the rest • Muslims have petitioned Nike to recall its Air Max 270 shoes, which are said to feature a design on the sole that resembles “Allah” in Arabic script. (Bloomberg)• Nearly 30 percent of company directors in Australia are women, up from 19.4 percent in 2015, leapfrogging the U.S., Britain and Canada in female representation in the boardroom. (FT)• More than $4 billion was paid out over the past decade to members of the Sackler family, which owns the drugmaker Purdue Pharma, even as sales of the opioid painkiller OxyContin waned, according to court documents. (WSJ)• Beer companies, casinos and other corporations are funneling record amounts into the U.S. wind and solar power industry, taking advantage of plunging costs, favorable tax breaks and a public relations boost. (WSJ)• Hedge funds are displaying levels of risk aversion that would be expected after a financial crisis. (Bloomberg)• Former U.S. intelligence operatives helped the United Arab Emirates spy on its enemies using technological techniques taught by the federal government. The secret operation was known as Project Raven. (Reuters)• It’s an election year in India. Gold consumption is likely to increase. (Bloomberg)• Sri Lanka’s constitutional crisis — in which the president and prime minister have faced off — has forced it to borrow heavily from China. (WSJ)• Phillips, a boutique auction house, sold $916.5 million of art and collectibles last year, the most in its 220-year history. A 1932 painting by Pablo Picasso fetched $57.8 million; a Rolex watch known as “The Unicorn” sold for $5.9 million. (Bloomberg)• A breakdown of the Super Bowl ad market, with a look at the beer company that spends the most. (WSJ)• Chinese consumers and their desire for handbags, Hennessy and other luxury products from LVMH helped add $4.3 billion to its chief executive Bernard Arnault’s fortune. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Friday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAnd what that tells us about the fate of Apple in China.By Yuan RenMs. Ren is a writer and a former editor at Time Out Beijing.I got my first iPhone during Chinese New Year in early 2012. It wasn’t anything I’d aspired to own. I wasn’t particularly techy, nor could I afford the brand as a graduate with a starting salary.But at a dinner with an old friend of my father’s, the friend gave me, along with other knickknacks, an iPhone 4. My gift came with a caveat, however: It wasn’t the sought-after 4S that had caused a frenzy around the country after its release in January. Mine was a simple iPhone 4 — released in 2010, and by then considered already past its prime as a formal gift. That meant I was almost certainly a secondary or even tertiary receiver of the phone — China’s gift-giving culture is all about regifting — but back then, the Apple brand carried enough cachet that my father’s friend still saw it as good enough to give a close friend’s daughter, if not quite prized enough to present to a business partner.That was back when Apple was still the phone to own for a Chinese person on the make, and when people like my father and his friends — mostly older, and in senior positions in large organizations — were still caught up in the legend of the Apple product, even though most of them, including him, had no idea how to use most of the features. That didn’t matter; it was enough to know that iPhones were “the best.” Their global reputations came with an assurance of both status and quality.What’s happened in the interim? A lot. When Apple’s chief executive, Tim Cook, warned investors on Wednesday that the company was facing slowing sales in China, the wider world seemingly greeted the news that Apple had lost its China mojo with shock. But for those who are smartphone users in China, the news just confirmed what we already knew: China’s domestic brands have made huge strides in the years since 2012, creating new features and products that take into account what Chinese users want, for a small fraction of the price. Apple, meanwhile, has mostly failed to localize or reinvent itself, on the assumption that global cachet would be enough.The homegrown groundswell began with a little-known brand called Xiaomi, which burst onto the scene in the early 2010s as one of the first brands in China to have its own operating system, and offered high-speed processing on the cheap. At first it appeared to cater to a completely different market than Apple. Selling entirely online, Xiaomi offered both a low-end model — the Redmi for as low as 699 yuan (then under $150) — and a higher-end model that was still far cheaper than the cheapest iPhone (less than 2,000 yuan, then under $350).But with time, the useful features on Xiaomi products, as well as those of its competitors like Huawei and OPPO, combined with the price, began to outweigh the increasingly limited glamour of the iPhone. I myself transitioned to a high-end Xiaomi from an iPhone in late 2015 after a young professional friend of mine, who worked in marketing in Shanghai, raved about the Xiaomi Mi Note, which is one of the big-screen models, or “phablets,” that have long been popular in China and East Asia, where many prefer the bigger screens — Huawei’s latest measures a whopping 7.2 inches — ideal for taking selfies and watching TV dramas. (Apple released its Plus series in late 2014 with larger handsets, which did send its sales shooting up in China — but also added $100 to an already expensive price tag.)Apple also long resisted the rise of another important local feature: the dual SIM card system, a component that may sound boring but for Chinese people has become essential. In China, where many young people have never owned laptops, phones have become all-in-one devices — part television, part computer, part phone. Transitioning between two SIM cards on all other cell brands is a seamless process: one card for streaming and downloading at cheaper rates, the other one for making calls. Growing international tourism has also raised demand for phones that can accommodate a second, foreign SIM — and yet for years, Apple didn’t budge. The company finally gave in to the dual SIM card in the form of special models for China and Hong Kong last fall.It’s telling that the main example of Apple localizing its products to China in the last few years was a special model gold-colored iPhone. First introduced in 2013, it was a clear play for the Chinese market, and was, admittedly, a huge hit on the mainland. Many joked that the gold iPhone was targeted at the tuhao, a recent term that roughly translates as “tasteless nouveau riche” and that mockingly refers to the wealthy who feel the need to show off. The color was even given the name tuhao jin, or tuhao gold.But the allure of gold-colored plating — a feature focused not on user experience but aesthetics — goes only so far, it seems. And it may not be enough at this point to keep even the tuhao loyal. Huawei, China’s largest smartphone maker by market share, recently overtook Apple to move to second place globally. Its popularity among the wealthy and business class at home has shot up in recent years; its prices have been steadily rising as it shifts focus toward higher-end products. Many upper-middle-class Chinese who once owned iPhones have since switched to Huawei — including my dad.As China has moved online en masse, it has, perhaps, surprised some analysts who believed that the appeal of high-end brands as status symbols would drive decision-making for years into the future. It turns out that Chinese consumers care about user experience, too (and price, of course).But the iPhone hasn’t lost all of its luster. A civil servant friend of mine was still offered a brand-new iPhone as a “gift” in 2016; I’ve yet to hear of anyone who was bribed with a Huawei. Yuan Ren is a writer and producer from Beijing.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.An earlier version of this article misstated when the author replaced her iPhone with a phone made by Xiaomi. It was in late 2015, not early 2014.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byON LOCATIONWhat could be better than renting a 200-year-old house as a weekend escape? Building a new glass-and-stone home and running an organic farm there.13 PhotosView Slide Show ›By Tim McKeoughAfter renting a 200-year-old farmhouse on 230 acres in Stanford, N.Y., for four years, Soo Kim and Carolina Gunnarsson couldn’t imagine any better place for a weekend escape from Manhattan.“We loved it so much. It’s very secluded; the only neighbors were cows,” said Ms. Gunnarsson, 32, a founder of Fit Pregnancy Club, a prenatal fitness studio in SoHo. “It was always our dream that we would be able to buy it.”So in 2012, when the owner suggested she might be willing to sell, Ms. Gunnarsson and Mr. Kim, 43, who works in finance, bought it for $2.8 million.In the beginning, they had a few changes in mind. They wanted to clear some of the overgrown farmland, add a pool and build a modest addition to the house.They knew the architects they wanted to hire: Hayes and James Slade, the husband-and-wife principals of Slade Architecture, who had designed Mr. Kim’s SoHo bachelor pad years earlier and had a house of their own in nearby Millbrook, N.Y.For about a year, the architects worked on plans for an addition as the project expanded to include space for a larger family. At the time, Mr. Kim and Ms. Gunnarsson had a newborn, but they suspected more children would be in their future. Today, they have three: Annalisa, 6, Gustav, 3, and Ragnar, 1.By the time they finished adding rooms to the proposed structure, it dwarfed the original building. “It became the addition that ate the house,” Ms. Slade said.After a pause, they decided to start over and design an entirely new house slightly farther up the hill, leaving the farmhouse intact as a guesthouse.For the new 4,600-square-foot house, the Slades conceived a home formed by two overlapping, perpendicular boxes. One box, which sits low on the hill beside a retaining wall, is clad in dry-stacked local stone and Cor-Ten steel shutters. It contains the private functions, including five bedrooms, a family room, a study and a mudroom (plus a playroom in the basement). The other box sits on top, with a living room, dining area and large open kitchen wrapped in floor-to-ceiling glass.“The glass house has 360-degree views, totally unobstructed in every direction,” Mr. Slade said, noting that such transparency can occasionally feel too exposed, especially at night. “So then you have this other space, the stone house, which is much more contained and private.”The house has green roofs for camouflage, because the property is within the view corridor of Wethersfield, a historic estate with museums and gardens open to the public, and Mr. Kim and Ms. Gunnarsson didn’t want their home to stick out like a shiny modernist trinket. The glass walls also reflect the landscape during the day, Mr. Slade said, so “it’s a little bit stealth.”Beyond blending into the surrounding fields, the house is designed to be green in its energy use. After studying the position of the sun at different times of year, the architects designed roof overhangs for the glass portion that allow sunlight inside during the winter but create shade during the summer. There is a geothermal heating and cooling system, and photovoltaic panels for electricity are planned for the future. And some of the cabinetry and paneling inside the house is made with wood from the property’s cherry trees.Reed Contracting began construction in the spring of 2015, and Mr. Kim and Ms. Gunnarsson spent their first few nights in the house on Thanksgiving weekend of 2017, as the finishing work continued. The house was finally completed last spring at a cost of about $700 a square foot.Now, aside from serving as their country getaway, the property is an active organic farm with cows, chickens, pigs and sheep, managed by a local farmer. Mr. Kim and Ms. Gunnarsson also own the nearby Big Rock Community Farms Market, which sells products from many area farms and small-scale food producers. The original farmhouse has proved to be an ideal guesthouse for visitors like Ms. Gunnarsson’s parents, who live in Sweden and come to stay for weeks at a time.After struggling to imagine anything better than the farmhouse when they were renters, the couple have since come around.“I love cooking, and being able to stand in our kitchen and look out at the views,” Ms. Gunnarsson said earlier this month. “Last week, it was minus-11 degrees outside, and I could cook in the kitchen, be nice and cozy, but still feel like I was outside the whole time. We’re that close to nature.”For weekly email updates on residential real estate news, sign up here. Follow us on Twitter: @nytrealestate.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Here’s what to watch for. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)President Trump is optimistic about striking a trade deal with China — but Chinese officials are hesitant, according to Keith Bradsher and Ana Swanson of the NYT:“Beijing officials are wary” that what currently looks like a positive trade deal for them, which doesn’t require big changes to the economy, could turn bad, Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson explain. They worry about “Mr. Trump’s propensity for last-minute changes,” according to unidentified sources.Those fears could derail a planned summit meeting between President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China, where Mr. Trump hopes to sign a deal. “Persuading Mr. Xi to attend such a summit meeting is no easy task, given his imperative of appearing strong before a domestic audience,” Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson note.“The biggest barrier to a deal continues to be the enforcement of terms,” Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson add. “The United States has insisted that it retain the right to raise tariffs if China violates the agreement, without retaliation by Beijing. But some Chinese officials have criticized the arrangement as a potential infringement of China’s sovereign rights.”More: China exports and imports both fell in February, as an economic slowdown and trade fights weighed on the nation.The dust has settled on Mark Zuckerberg’s surprise announcement that the social network would refocus its business on privacy. Now, people are starting to dissect what, exactly, the news means for its business model.“Facebook is entering a transition phase where it will continue to sell targeted ads on its public social networks, while inventing a new business model,” Thomas Husson, a senior analyst at the research company Forrester, told the FT. In other words, think of it as less of a pivot and as more of a diversification.So it will “still gather data from its existing sources,” Christopher Mims of the WSJ writes, “but also increasingly from messaging apps. These would double as interfaces with businesses and, eventually, usurp the functions of our credit cards and digital wallets.” Expect to see Facebook make announcements about payments, commerce and its own crypto token in the not-too-distant future.Diversification is a play for long-term survival, especially if regulators clamp down on the mass collection of data and targeted ads that have been the company’s bread and butter. The faster Facebook can spin up alternative revenue streams — and acting as a global payments network could be a lucrative one — the better its chances of continuing to grow.Bank of America released a report yesterday, on the eve of International Women’s Day, that shows the state of the global disparity in wealth between men and women. There’s reason for both hope and dismay, according to Ortenca Aliaj of the FT.The good:• The report says that improving women’s equality could raise global growth over the next six years by $28 trillion — or, as Ms. Aliaj writes, “roughly the same as the U.S. and China’s combined annual economic output.”• Women are expected to control $72 trillion of global financial assets by 2020, double what they held in 2010.The bad:• “The economic gender gap is closing at a ‘snail’s pace’ and it could take another 202 years to reach equality at the current rate.”• “Women in western Europe might start earning the same as men for the same roles in 60 years, while women in North America might have to wait another 165 years, the report calculated.”• “Data compiled from more than 10,000 respondents showed that men were more optimistic about higher pay rises over the next year while women expected to perform at least two and a half times more unpaid work than men.”More: The private equity and venture capital industries have $3 trillion in assets under management — but female entrepreneurs receive just a fraction of it, according to a new report.As Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant, takes the U.S. government to court over a ban limiting the use of its products in federal agencies, the company has won the support of its government.• “We support relevant companies and individuals to take up legal weapons to safeguard their rights and interests, and not be silent lambs,” Wang Yi, Beijing’s top diplomat, said at a news conference yesterday.• “What we’re standing up for is not just the interests of a company, but also a country or nation’s legitimate right to innovate and by extension the basic right of all countries who wish to climb up the technology ladder,” he added.But Mr. Wang’s comments don’t address U.S. claims that Huawei equipment could be used by China to spy on American communications. As CNBC notes, Chinese law suggests that domestic companies are legally obligated to help the government with intelligence work — and may be forbidden from talking about it.With less than a week to go before Parliament makes a final vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal, she is expected to try to shift the focus from Britain to the E.U.“Just as MPs will face a big choice next week, the E.U. has to make a choice too,” Mrs. May is expected to say in a speech today, according to the BBC. “It is in the European interest for the U.K. to leave with a deal.”“The decisions that the European Union makes over the next few days will have a big impact on the outcome of the vote,” she will add, referring to her hope that European officials will make binding legal changes to the Irish border details of her deal. Those look necessary if Mrs. May is to win over lawmakers.Such a public plea for compromise shows how tough the negotiations have been. “Talks are expected to continue into the weekend,” Bloomberg notes. “If they fail, Parliament will likely vote against May’s deal for the second time, plunging the country into political chaos.”Just a few months ago, the European Central Bank put the brakes on a vast economic stimulus program. Yesterday, it unexpectedly reversed course, Jack Ewing of the NYT writes:• The E.C.B. voted unanimously “to bring back a stimulus measure intended to encourage lending. The move will help banks in countries with weaker economies like Italy that may have trouble raising money on capital markets at reasonable rates.”• “The bank also pushed back the date of its earliest possible increase in benchmark interest rates by at least four months.”• “The quick turnabout, from confidence to concern, reflects the broader weakness in the global economy. A slowdown in China, exacerbated by rising trade tensions with the United States, has reverberated around the world, dragging down growth in Europe and elsewhere.”• “Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, implicitly blamed White House policies for the economic damage behind the decision. ‘Lower confidence produced by the trade discussions’ was a key cause of economic slowdowns in Europe, China and emerging markets, Mr. Draghi said.”• “He added, though, that he did not expect a recession.”You might think that Martin Shkreli, the “pharma bro” imprisoned for fraud, would have curtailed his business efforts. You’d be wrong, as Rob Copeland and Bradley Hope of the WSJ point out.• “Wielding little more than a contraband smartphone, the disgraced pharmaceutical executive remains the shadow power at Phoenixus AG,” the company that, under a different name, drew outrage for jacking up the prices of rare drugs.• He conducts drug research from the prison’s computer lab and, until recently, tweeted insults at the likes of Jack Dorsey of Twitter.• His friends at a prison in Fort Dix, N.J., include inmates like “Krispy” and “D-Block.” (Their reported nickname for Mr. Shkreli is unprintable here.)• “A few weeks ago he rang up his handpicked chief executive during a safari vacation — to fire him, according to a person familiar with the exchange.” That was later changed to a suspension.• “His back-of-the-commissary-envelope calculation indicates that Phoenixus could be worth $3.7 billion by the time he is due to be freed in 2023, according to a person familiar with his thinking.” His business plan involves buying rare drugs and spending on research and development.• But minority shareholders in the company are tired of Mr. Shkreli’s behavior. “This investment is an absolute disaster,” Sabine Gritti, one of those investors, told the WSJ.Uber, Lyft, Airbnb, Slack and a host of other Silicon Valley companies are poised to go public this year, making employees and investors who own shares very rich. Nellie Bowles of the NYT explores how they plan to spend their wealth:They will push up real estate prices. The Bay Area, known for its unaffordable housing, may get even pricier. “People are like, ‘I’m not going to sell till next year, because there are going to be bajillionaries everywhere,’” Herman Chan, a real estate agent with Sotheby’s, told Ms. Bowles.There will be parties. Companies that go public want to celebrate, and hospitality companies are happy to oblige. One planner told Ms. Bowles that start-up I.P.O. party budgets can exceed $10 million, adding, “They’re wanting to bring in A-list celebrities to perform at the dinner tables for the executives.”Trophy purchases will be made. But wealth advisers are trying to persuade new clients to show a little restraint. “I don’t think a lot of them think there ever could be a downturn,” Ryan S. Cole of Citrine Capital told the NYT, adding, “They shouldn’t be buying boats.”Jan Stahlberg, a co-founder of the Swedish private equity firm EQT, is leaving to start an impact-investing fund.Deals• Norway gave its sovereign wealth fund permission to sell off its holdings in pure-play oil companies. (Bloomberg)• Airbnb agreed to buy HotelTonight, a site for last-minute hotel bookings. (NYT)• A group led by Amazon and the New York Yankees is reportedly close to buying the YES Network, the Yankee’s regional sports channel, from 21st Century Fox for about $3.5 billion. (NY Post)• SoftBank announced a new $5 billion fund to invest in Latin American start-ups. (WSJ)• The billionaire family that controls the maker of OxyContin has been dropped by Hildene Capital Management, a hedge fund that had managed some of their money. (WSJ)Politics and policy• House Democrats are looking into claims that President Trump wanted the White House to block AT&T’s bid for Time Warner. (CNBC)• The Labor Department proposed expanding overtime eligibility to cover most salaried workers earning less than $35,000 a year. (NYT)• Michael Cohen sued the Trump Organization over what he says are $1.9 million in unpaid legal fees. (NYT)• Paul Manafort was sentenced to 47 months in prison in one of two cases against him, well below federal guidelines. (NYT)Tech• Wall Street is betting on business software because of the sector’s fast growth. (FT)• Elon Musk’s federal security clearance is at risk over his pot use. (Bloomberg)• Facebook announced a plan to curb vaccine misinformation. (NYT)• Tim Cook changed his Twitter handle to “Tim Apple”— after President Trump misidentified him during a meeting this week. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Carlos Ghosn’s lawyer explained why his client left jail in disguise — and admitted that it didn’t work very well. (WSJ)• Governments and investors are taking a new interest in Africa. Will it play out better for Africans this time? (Economist)• Modern Monetary Theory is gaining favor among American politicians. But should we try it out in a smaller country first? (Upshot)• Philadelphia has become the first U.S. city to ban cashless stores. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" Advertisement

      By CHARLIE WARZEL and 
    
STUART A. THOMPSON

APRIL 10, 2019

On June 9, 1999, Google made a pledge to its small but growing number of customers in a blunt 600-word statement. “Google is sensitive to the privacy concerns of its users. The internet allows individuals to explore and communicate with unprecedented ease, but it also allows websites to collect and distribute personal information with equal ease. We at Google know that many users are, understandably, concerned about such practices.”The statement, which today reads like a quaint artifact of a simpler time, would become the company’s first privacy policy — a gently lawyered explanation of how the company collects and distributes its users’ data and information. Google’s was far from the first privacy statement from a big technology business, but it’s one of the first examples of the form from a company that helped lay the foundation for the modern, information-guzzling internet.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what's at stake and what you can do about it.]  And it wasn’t only Google that was “sensitive to the privacy concerns of its users.” All of today’s tech giants have made similar commitments.In 2002, the Microsoft founder Bill Gates declared, “Users should be in control of how their data is used.”Three years later, Facebook, through its founder, Mark Zuckerberg, echoed the statement in a note to its campus user base, “We give you control of your information.”Similar statements from countless technology companies have followed in the years since. Over that time, they have said they would like to protect your privacy ...… even as many companies began to collect and display information invasively.Technology companies have also tried to explain all the ways they protect your privacy ...… but the rhetoric was different from reality, where a number of companies experienced hacks and data breaches.Since the early 2000s, companies have argued that despite all the data they collect, you still own it ...… and yet default designs and settings and lax security have long left information vulnerable.Finally, since the advent of concerns about Google and Facebook’s use of personal data for advertising,  companies have pointed out that they don’t sell your data …… and nonetheless many of the companies' business models are predicated on a targeted advertising model that relies on the continued collection of increasingly personal information.It’s been almost 20 years since Google’s first privacy statement. The internet today is a significantly different place, one that’s largely powered by the transmission and transfer of our personal information. Data breaches — some of vertiginous scale — are common, as is the creeping sense that, in order to log on, we’re forced to submit to being tracked and targeted.But if the modern internet has changed greatly, the statements from the multinational corporations that transformed it have remained strikingly similar. The tech companies and their leaders have been saying we should be in charge of our information for 20 years. So why — now, more than ever — does it feel that we aren’t?Charlie Warzel, a New York Times Opinion writer at large, covers technology, media, politics and online extremism. He welcomes your tips and feedback: charlie.warzel@nytimes.com and @cwarzel. Stuart A. Thompson is the graphics director for The New York Times OpinionThe Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.The New York Times is launching an ongoing examination of privacy. We’ll dig into the ideas, history and future of how our information navigates the digital ecosystem and what’s at stake.See all Privacy articlesFrom the NewsroomApril 13, 2019See all Privacy articlesAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)As of this morning, Lyft is officially the first in a new wave of Silicon Valley companies to begin trading on the public markets, Michael de la Merced and Kate Conger of the NYT report.The ride-hailing service is now valued at more than $24 billion, after robust investor demand helped Lyft price its initial public offering last night at $72 a share, up from its first price range of $62 to $68. The company sold more shares than planned, raising over $2.3 billion.It begins trading on the Nasdaq this morning, under the ticker symbol LYFT. Investors will be anxious to see how big a “pop” its shares will enjoy. Some analysts have already given it a “buy” recommendation.Lyft’s stock sale will yield a windfall for its investors, including Rakuten of Japan, G.M. and Andreessen Horowitz. The company’s co-founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, will become multimillionaires.But a big challenge lies in sustaining its valuation. Lyft is deeply in the red — it lost nearly $1 billion last year — and has told investors that it will remain so for some time. Matt Phillips and Erin Griffith of the NYT note that early investors captured the biggest gains, making it unclear how much is left for the public market.Tim Sloan, who took over Wells Fargo as the bank became embroiled in scandal, abruptly resigned yesterday, as the lender remains mired in legal battles.He became C.E.O. in 2016 after his predecessor, John Stumpf, resigned amid growing scandals at Wells Fargo. (Among them: the opening of sham accounts in customers’ names and improper customer fees.) Mr. Sloan was supposed to help the bank move on.But Mr. Sloan became a lightning rod, as employees complained about a toxic workplace culture and lawmakers and regulators fumed over a lack of reform at the bank. “I could not keep myself in a position where I was becoming a distraction,” he told investors yesterday.Critics welcomed the news. Senator Elizabeth Warren, who had called on regulators to oust Mr. Sloan, tweeted, “About damn time.” Shareholders also appeared relieved, with Wells Fargo’s stock rising 2 percent in after-hours trading.He’ll be replaced on an interim basis by Allen Parker, Wells Fargo’s general counsel and a former partner at the law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore. Mr. Parker got the job in part because he has good relationships with the bank’s regulators, according to the NYT.The Department of Housing and Urban Development accused Facebook in court yesterday of engaging in housing discrimination, Katie Benner, Glenn Thrush and Mike Isaac of the NYT write.• H.U.D. says that the social network allows advertisers “to restrict who is able to see ads on the platform based on characteristics like race, religion and national origin.”• It also says Facebook “uses its data-mining practices to determine which of its users are able to view housing-related ads.”“The lawsuit coincides with a broader push by civil rights groups to scrutinize whether big technology companies are reinforcing real-world biases online by using algorithms to identify and target specific groups of users,” Ms. Benner, Mr. Glenn and Mr. Isaac write.Facebook now faces federal investigations into its business practices from H.U.D., the F.T.C., the S.E.C. and the Justice Department.More: The company has tightened rules on political ads in Europe ahead of the European Parliament elections in May.Carlos Ghosn’s vision of merging Nissan and Renault was controversial within the companies. And according to the WSJ, it was Nissan executives’ fears over France taking a stake in one of Japan’s top companies that led to his downfall.Senior Nissan executives “wanted to derail any possibility of a full combination of Nissan and Renault, which they feared Mr. Ghosn was pushing,” according to the WSJ, which cites documents and unnamed people.They feared French control of the automaker, the WSJ adds. “Two Nissan executives, determined to halt further corporate integration, instigated a probe of Mr. Ghosn, chasing longtime rumors of wrongdoing, until they found evidence of alleged financial crimes to give prosecutors,” the WSJ writes.“The men initiated the probe in April 2018, the same month the French government, which holds a 15 percent stake in Renault, laid out the reasons it wanted a merger,” it adds.Merger discussions have indeed been stymied. The question now, according to Hiroko Tabuchi of the NYT, is whether the rifts are too deep to repair.For two years, March 29, 2019, was supposed to be the day that Britain departed from the E.U. That hasn’t happened.Brexit has now been delayed to at least April 12. Before then, Prime Minister Theresa May — who on Wednesday offered to resign in order to save her Brexit deal — will try once more to win support for her agreement.Lawmakers are trying a new tack to push the deal through. “Ministers said they would disassemble Mrs. May’s deal into its two parts — one called the withdrawal agreement, and the other the political declaration — and ask Parliament to vote Friday only on the first,” Benjamin Mueller of the NYT writes.But the withdrawal agreement is contentious. The document, which outlines the terms of Brexit, doesn’t have backing across Mrs. May’s Conservative Party, nor from Unionist allies in Northern Ireland. But it may appeal to some pro-Brexit Labour Party lawmakers whose issues are with the political declaration, which outlines Britain’s future relationship with Europe.If the agreement passes today, Parliament will meet the E.U.’s deadline for completing the Brexit process, and would have until May 22 to extract Britain from the bloc. If not, Britain could crash out without a deal on April 12 — or it could ask for a longer extension.The team studying the recent 737 Max 8 crash in Ethiopia has reportedly reached a preliminary conclusion, according to the WSJ: Glitchy automated anti-stall software activated shortly before the plane crashed.• “The emerging consensus among investigators, one of these people said, was relayed during a high-level briefing at the Federal Aviation Administration on Thursday.”• It is “the strongest indication yet that the same automated system, called MCAS, misfired in both the Ethiopian Airlines flight earlier this month and a Lion Air flight in Indonesia, which crashed less than five months earlier.”• “The preliminary finding from the ‘black box’ recorders of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 is subject to revisions, according to the people briefed on the matter.”Boeing announced a series of fixes for the anti-stall system on Wednesday. It said that based on what was known about the crashes, MCAS was in need of updating.The first quarter of this year was the third-best for deal-making in two decades, according to data from Refinitiv. But that’s thanks largely to three mega-mergers, without which 2019 would be off to a miserable start.• 8,765 transactions worth $927.2 billion were announced in the quarter. That’s a 30 percent drop in the number of deals and a 17 percent drop in their dollar volume compared with the same period last year.• Bristol-Myers Squibb’s $74 billion takeover of Celgene, Aramco’s $69.1 billion bid for Sabic and FIS’s $34 billion offer for Worldpay helped keep M.&A. volumes up.• Deal makers feel like there’s room for improvement. “We’ve been very happy in terms of big deals but we need more deals overall,” Anu Aiyengar, the head of North American M.&A. at JPMorgan Chase, told the FT.• The fear that’s slowly putting clients off deal-making, according to some advisers: recession.New York State’s attorney general sued the Sackler family, which controls the OxyContin maker Purdue Pharma, yesterday, accusing it of siphoning money from the drugmaker and erasing a paper trail.• “The New York lawsuit alleges that Sackler family members abolished quarterly reports, insisted that numbers be recounted only orally to board members, and voted to pay themselves millions of dollars, often through offshore companies.”• It also accuses the Sacklers of setting up a new drug company, Rhodes, in 2007 to shift the opioid business away from Purdue. (Rhodes eventually overtook Purdue in market share for opioids.)• “The lawsuit also goes well beyond other cases in spelling out in granular detail how pharmaceutical distributors played a role in the opioid epidemic by ignoring blatant ‘red flags’ that indicated mountains of opioids were being diverted for illegal use.”• The Sacklers and Purdue denied the allegations.It’s well-known that President Trump exaggerated his riches to make himself seem wealthier. But David Farenthold and Jonathan O’Connell of the WaPo obtained his so-called “statements of financial condition” — and showed how he embellished the truth.Many figures in the documents weren’t verified, even though they were prepared by his accountants. Instead, the accountants simply wrote down what Mr. Trump described. “In the compilation process, it is not the role of the accountant to assess the values,” one of them said.That led to inflated figures like Mr. Trump claiming that he owned a 2,000-acre vineyard in Virginia (real size: 1,200 acres) or that an estate he owned in Westchester County, N.Y., was worth $261 million (local authorities’ assessment: $20 million).But Mr. Trump may be shielded from fraud claims over some of these documents, because his accounting firm explicitly said it couldn’t vouch for the figures, legal experts said.Morgan Stanley’s president, Colm Kelleher, will retire on June 30, after having helped stabilize one of Wall Street’s most prominent investment banks.Kazuo Hirai, Sony’s chairman and former C.E.O., is retiring.Campbell Soup has named Keith McLoughlin, who served as interim C.E.O. last year, as its new chairman.Barclays has hired Kristin DeClark from Deutsche Bank as co-head of its U.S. equity capital markets business and head of its tech equity capital markets team.Deals• States like New York are reportedly considering suing to block T-Mobile’s proposed deal for Sprint, even if the Justice Department approves the transaction. (Bloomberg)• Wow Air, a low-cost Icelandic airline, shut down yesterday after failing to find a last-minute financial lifeline. (NYT)• Saudi Aramco reportedly plans to issue $10 billion worth of bonds to help finance its $69 billion deal for control of the petrochemical company Sabic. (WSJ)Politics and policy• Democrats questioned how accurately Attorney General William Barr’s four-page letter to Congress summarized Robert Mueller’s 300-page report. (NYT)• While Mr. Trump called on OPEC to lower oil prices, his administration reportedly took the rare step of meeting with the oil cartel. (WSJ)• Senator Amy Klobuchar, who’s running for the Democratic presidential nomination in 2020, proposed a $1 trillion infrastructure investment plan. (NYT)Trade• American and Chinese trade officials resumed negotiations today after what Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said was a “productive working dinner” last night. (CNBC)• China is offering foreign companies better access to its cloud-computing market as a concession in those trade talks. (WSJ)• Canada may help its canola farmers after China restricted imports of their crops. (Bloomberg)Tech• Huawei may be struggling to convince the world that it’s not a security threat, but its revenue soared to $105 billion last year, up nearly a fifth from 2017. (NYT)• The F.C.C. has fined robo-callers $208 million since 2015. But it has managed to collect only $6,790. (WSJ)• Apple’s Tim Cook and Qualcomm’s Steven Mollenkopf are scheduled to testify in a trial that is part of a continuing legal battle between the two companies. (Bloomberg)• Goldman Sachs is reportedly developing a subscription service for Wall Street data. (Business Insider)Best of the rest• Lawyers for Nigeria have sued JPMorgan Chase over $900 million withdrawn from a government bank account by corrupt former officials. (NYT)• American companies more than quadrupled the amount of foreign earnings they repatriated from offshore accounts last year. (WSJ)• A majority of revenue at Wirecard, the German financial-payments company, comes from referral partners — some of whom aren’t as significant as described. (FT)• A top shareholder advisory firm has a new benchmark for measuring C.E.O. pay: “economic value added.” (Fortune)• How a woman accused of being a con artist duped a bank out of $100,000: “She understood the financial jargon.” (Sky)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Andrea Kannapell(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with the pending release of the Mueller report, North Korea’s weapons test and the climate protests in London.For nearly two years, questions have swirled around the role Russia played in the 2016 U.S. election and whether President Trump obstructed justice during the ensuing investigation. On Thursday morning in Washington, a redacted version of the special counsel’s nearly 400-page report will finally be made public.The New York Times will be offering live updates and analysis of the key findings. Here’s what to expect. Congressional Democrats, reporters and many Americans will make a beeline to the section that addresses why the special counsel, Robert Mueller, decided not to draw a conclusion about whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice — a gap Attorney General William Barr filled with his own determination that the president had not.In the White House: Justice Department officials had numerous conversations with White House lawyers about the report’s conclusions, our reporters were told, allowing Mr. Trump’s advisers to prepare rebuttals. The disclosure raises more questions about the propriety of Mr. Barr’s actions. Some of Mr. Trump’s advisers are concerned about whether he will retaliate against them if the report reveals them to be sources of damaging details. Read for yourself: The redacted report is to be posted on the special counsel’s website.Individuals, companies and institutions have already given or pledged 850 million euros, or about $960 million, to the reconstruction of the fire-ravaged cathedral, and Prime Minister Édouard Philippe announced plans for an international competition to design a new spire. But the spectacle of French billionaires trying to outdo one another with gifts that may win them tax breaks quickly intensified resentments over inequality that have flared during the Yellow Vest movement.Saving the treasures: The Paris Fire Department’s chaplain, the Rev. Jean-Marc Fournier, has emerged as a central figure in the mission to rescue artworks, artifacts and relics from the blaze. He described to our reporter how he and 100 firefighters carried the precious pieces to safety as molten debris showered down. Detailing the fire: Our interactive graphic takes you inside Notre-Dame’s attic, where the blaze started.They’ve glued themselves to the top of a London commuter train, staged a group yoga class on a major bridge and occupied major landmarks. And hundreds have been arrested since Monday, in a civil disobedience campaign demanding immediate government action on climate change. “We’re not trying to be a nuisance and bother commuters,” said Luis Silva, a member of Extinction Rebellion, the activist group that organized the protests, “but we need to shake people for them to understand that this is a global emergency and we all have to participate to avert the impending disaster.” Validation: The protesters’ cause was bolstered — whether intentionally or not — by Mark Carney, the governor of the Bank of England, who warned the financial sector that it faced an existential threat from climate change and urged international banks to take immediate steps to prepare. International plan: Extinction Rebellion says it has organized demonstrations in more than 80 cities across 33 countries, to be held in the next few days. North Korea said today that it had test-fired a new type of “tactical guided weapon.” There was no evidence the test involved a nuclear detonation or an intercontinental ballistic missile.Experts said it was likely that the test was a demonstration of a conventional weapons system, perhaps artillery or an antiaircraft system, and amounted to signal-sending by the North Korean leader, Kim Jong-un.Analysis: Mr. Kim has held off on nuclear and long-range missile tests, meeting twice with President Trump in hopes of persuading the U.S. to lift crippling sanctions. Mr. Kim may be raising the stakes by suggesting that the moratorium — Mr. Trump’s signature foreign policy initiative — could collapse before the 2020 elections.During Susan Wojcicki’s tenure as chief executive of YouTube, she has had to contend with uploads of pedophilia and mass murder. Yet she has largely kept a low profile and escaped the public scrutiny that her peers on other platforms have faced.To get a sense of what she was like as a leader, our reporter spoke to more than a dozen current and former employees, and Ms. Wojcicki herself — three times.Science: In a study that raises profound questions about the line between life and death, researchers restored some cellular activity to brains removed from slaughtered pigs. A bioethicist called the brains “partly alive.” Venezuela: The first airlift of a large-scale relief campaign landed on Tuesday, and relief workers are grappling with how to deliver aid in a crumbling, divided, violent country. Sudan: Former President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, who has not been seen publicly since he was deposed last week, has been moved to a prison in Khartoum, the capital.Peru: Former President Alan García shot himself in the head and died as the police tried to arrest him in a major corruption case.Candida auris: Our reporter reconstructed the case of a woman who died in February at a major hospital in Chicago, a rare portrait of a drug-resistant infection that few institutions have discussed even as it appears around the world.Snapshot: Above, the video board announced that a Manchester City goal had been disallowed in the final moments of its second-leg quarterfinal match against Tottenham Hotspur in the Champions League. Tottenham lost the match, but by a small enough margin to advance to the next stage.Lionel Messi: Barcelona’s triumph on Tuesday over Manchester United reveals a genius in full bloom, our soccer reporter writes. Beyoncé: The singer released “Homecoming,” a previously unannounced live-album version of her performance last year at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival, just as Netflix began streaming a documentary about the career-defining set.What we’re reading: This piece from The Bulwark. “It’s a compelling counterpoint to the idea that being gay and running for president isn’t a big deal in 2019,” says Jeremy Peters, our national political reporter. “Tim Miller’s reaction to Pete Buttigieg kissing his husband onstage at a rally is a reminder that this is still very new.”Cook: Use leftovers to make salmon fried rice.Watch: Roxann Dawson’s faith-based film, “Breakthrough,” tells the story of a miraculous ordeal with an unassuming simplicity, our critic writes.Go: An exhibition at the Arab World Institute in Paris looks at how soccer shapes and reflects the Arab world. (Some of the photos are online.) Read: The Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer Robert A. Caro shares insights into his craft in “Working,” which is new this week on our hardcover nonfiction and combined print and e-book nonfiction best-seller lists. You can find all our best-seller lists here.Smarter Living: Movie buffs are anticipating the coming blockbuster season. If movie subscription services are available to you, make sure you’ll get your money’s worth. Check out which supports more of the films you want to see, and which works at the theaters you go to most often. Read the fine print — some services have limits on the number of films you can see, or when you can see them.And we have recommendations on affordable, reusable stand-ins for plastic one-and-done straws, spoons and containers.Thailand’s king is Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun. That is not his entire name. But that is all we publish in The Times.The leader of the Future Forward Party, which shocked the Thai military establishment in last month’s elections by coming in third in the popular vote, is Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit. Family names — a 20th-century innovation in Thailand — are constructed to be distinct, and that often means extra syllables.If foreigners find Thai names to be a mouthful, so, apparently, do Thais, who use nicknames in everyday life. Many people are called Lek (Thai for small), Nok (bird) and Poo (crab and, please, it’s pronounced closer to “boo”).This writer’s younger son has played soccer against an Ice, a Python and a Barcode. A girl in our building is called DTAC, which is the name of my cellphone operator.But the length of people’s names is nothing compared with the full name for Bangkok, the Thai capital. It starts with Krungthep Mahanakhon Amon Rattanakosin Mahinthara Ayuthaya and continues for 45 more syllables.That’s it for this briefing. See you on the other side of the Mueller report. — Andrea Thank youKatie Van Syckle helped compile today’s briefing. Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and Kenneth R. Rosen provided the break from the news. Hannah Beech, our Southeast Asia bureau chief, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode is the start of a two-part series about abortion.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Toss in the trash (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The New York Times has more than 30 international bureaus around the world. More than a few have cats. An earlier version of this briefing misstated the result of Wednesday’s quarterfinal match between Manchester City and Tottenham Hotspur. Tottenham lost; it did not win, although the margin of the defeat meant that it did advance to the next stage of the Champions League.Andrea Kannapell leads the international team that produces the Morning, Evening and Weekend Briefings.  Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Stephen Hiltner and Inyoung Kang(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with updates from Paris, unofficial results from Indonesia’s presidential election and Beyoncé’s surprise live album.Days after a fire devastated Notre-Dame cathedral, France is shifting its focus to reconstruction. President Emmanuel Macron set an ambitious timeline of just five years, and Prime Minister Édouard Philippe announced plans for an international competition to design a new spire.Individuals, companies and institutions have so far donated or pledged 845 million euros, about $950 million, to the cause. But the spectacle of French billionaires trying to outdo one another with gifts that may win them tax breaks quickly intensified resentments over inequality that have flared during the Yellow Vest movement.The investigation: Witnesses are still being interviewed to determine the cause of the fire.But it is clear that fundamental safeguards — like firewalls or a sprinkler system — were absent by choice, to avoid altering the cathedral’s design or heightening the risk by introducing electrical wiring to “the forest,” the network of ancient wooden beams that supported the roof.See for yourself: Our interactive graphic takes you inside Notre-Dame’s attic, where the fire started.Unofficial results from Wednesday’s election showed that President Joko Widodo had a comfortable lead over Prabowo Subianto, a four-time presidential candidate who had sought support from hard-line Islamists.Mr. Joko, who is seeking a second five-year term, led by 10 percentage points in early returns. He emphasized infrastructure development during his campaign while moving to shore up support among conservative Muslims.What’s next: Official results in the far-flung island nation take weeks, but the winners usually become quickly apparent through so-called quick counts, in which independent polling firms tally ballots from a sampling of polling places nationwide.A prominent businessman with no political experience is throwing his hat into the ring for his country’s presidency. Sound familiar?The Taiwanese billionaire tycoon Terry Gou, whose company, Foxconn, is best known for manufacturing iPhones, announced his presidential campaign. The vote will be held in January.His bid, he said, had received a divine blessing — from a Chinese sea goddess who approached him in a dream. “Mazu said I must take care of the youth,” he told reporters. “I must do everything I can to help those who are struggling.”Stances: Mr. Gou is expected to leverage his ties with China, where Foxconn has large investments, in an attempt to improve relations between the two countries. He has also made appeals to Taiwan’s youth, whose prospects have been undercut by slow economic growth and a difficult job market.The Trump connection: Taiwanese news reports say Mr. Gou became serious about running for president after Donald Trump’s election in 2016. He was feted by Mr. Trump at the White House a year later, after Foxconn announced a multibillion-dollar investment in Wisconsin — whose scale is now in question.For nearly two years questions have swirled around the role that Russia played in the U.S. election and whether President Trump obstructed justice during the ensuing investigation. On Thursday morning in America, a redacted version of the special counsel’s nearly 400-page report will finally be made public.Whether you’ve been following along closely or avoiding the news entirely, we’ve prepared a guide.Congressional Democrats, reporters and many Americans will make a beeline to the section that addresses why the special counsel, Robert Mueller, decided not to draw a conclusion about whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice — a gap Attorney General William Barr filled with his own determination that the president had not.Missing pieces: Lawyers for the special counsel and the Justice Department have blacked out portions of the report, including secret grand jury testimony, classified information, material related to continuing investigations and other delicate details.What’s next: Democrats on the House Judiciary Committee are unlikely to be satisfied with the redacted version and are expected to subpoena the full report. But even without it, they may find enough evidence of obstruction to, at minimum, raise new questions about Mr. Barr’s decision to clear the president.Read for yourself: The redacted report is to be posted on the special counsel’s website.During Susan Wojcicki’s tenure as chief executive of YouTube, she has had to contend with uploads of pedophilia and mass murder. Yet she has largely kept a low profile and escaped the public scrutiny that her peers on other platforms have faced.To get a sense of what she was like as a leader, our reporter spoke to more than a dozen current and former employees, and Ms. Wojcicki herself — three times.Sudan: Former President Omar Hassan al-Bashir, who has not been seen since he was deposed last week, has been moved to a prison in Khartoum, the capital.China: Official figures show that the country’s economy stabilized in the first three months of the year, after Beijing flooded the financial system with money.TikTok: The Chinese video app is no longer available in Google and Apple app stores in India after a court prohibited downloads.India: Health workers thought they had vanquished leprosy in 2005. But the disease lived on, cloaked in stigma and medical mystery.Peru: Former President Alan García shot himself in the head and died as the police tried to arrest him in a major corruption case.Snapshot: Above, one of the thousands of North American glaciers that are losing ice, disrupting habitats for everything from bacteria to fish. Science: In a study that raises profound questions about the line between life and death, researchers restored some cellular activity to brains removed from slaughtered pigs.Candida auris: Our reporter reconstructed the case of a woman who died in January at a major medical facility after being diagnosed with the drug-resistant fungus.Beyoncé: The singer released “Homecoming,” a previously unannounced live album version of her performance at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival last year.What we’re reading: This piece from The Bulwark. “It’s a compelling counterpoint to the idea that being gay and running for president isn’t a big deal in 2019,” says Jeremy Peters, our national political reporter. “Tim Miller’s reaction to Pete Buttigieg kissing his husband onstage at a rally is a reminder that this is still very new.”Cook: Use leftovers to make salmon fried rice.Watch: Claire Denis’s new film, “High Life,” is now in cinemas. Her fellow director Barry Jenkins chatted with her about anxiety and depicting black lives on film.Go: An exhibition at the Institute du Monde Arabe in Paris looks at how soccer shapes and reflects the Arab world. (Some of the photos are online.)Eat: At the restaurant Niche, in Manhattan, Shigetoshi Nakamura specializes in mazemen, brothless ramen. Read our review.Smarter Living: Movie buffs are anticipating the coming blockbuster season. If movie subscription services are available to you, make sure you’ll get your money’s worth. Check out which supports more of the films you want to see, and which works at the theaters you go to most often. Read the fine print — some services have limits on the number of films or the prime-time showings you can go to.And we have recommendations on ditching one-and-done plastic straws, spoons and containers with affordable, reusable stand-ins. Thailand’s king is Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun. That is not his entire name. But that is all we publish in The Times.The leader of the Future Forward Party, which shocked the Thai military establishment in last month’s elections by coming in third in the popular vote, is Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit. Family names — a 20th-century innovation in Thailand — are constructed to be distinct, and that often means extra syllables.If foreigners find Thai names to be a mouthful, so, apparently, do Thais, who use nicknames in everyday life. Many people are called Lek (Thai for small), Nok (bird) and Poo (crab and, please, it’s pronounced closer to “boo”).This writer’s younger son has played soccer against an Ice, a Python and a Barcode. A girl in our building is called DTAC, which is the name of my cellphone operator.But the length of people’s names is nothing compared with the full name for Bangkok. It starts with Krungthep Mahanakhon Amon Rattanakosin Mahinthara Ayuthaya and continues on for 45 more syllables.That’s it for this briefing. See you on the other side of the Mueller report.— Stephen and InyoungThank youKatie Van Syckle helped compile today’s briefing. Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and Kenneth R. Rosen provided the break from the news. Hannah Beech, our Southeast Asia bureau chief, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Our latest episode is the start of a two-part series about abortion.• Here’s our mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Ones trying to make fetch happen (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The New York Times has more than 30 international bureaus around the world. More than a few have cats. Stephen Hiltner is a reporter and photographer for the Surfacing column. A graduate of the University of Oxford and the University of Virginia, he joined The Times as a staff editor in 2016 after editing for six years at The Paris Review.  @sahiltner • Facebook Inyoung Kang is an editor and producer based in London.  @inyoungk Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering the release of Robert Mueller’s report, North Korea’s claim that it has tested a new weapon, and the growing number of abortion bans in the U.S.The Justice Department released a redacted version of the report by the special counsel, Robert Mueller. It has been posted on the department’s website, but load times are very slow, presumably due to high traffic. Here are our live updates on the findings, with excerpts and analysis, and our live coverage of the events of the day. We’re also planning to send a special edition of the Morning Briefing email later today. Attorney General William Barr held a news conference before the report’s release, vigorously defending President Trump’s conduct and clearing him of obstruction and him, his campaign and associates of any knowing collusion. Here is a transcript of his remarks. We’ll have video shortly. Response: Mr. Trump’s Twitter account displayed a “Game of Thrones”-themed post that declared in uppercase: “No Collusion. No Obstruction. For the haters and the Radical Left Democrats — Game Over.” Another angle: Justice Department officials have repeatedly discussed the report’s conclusions with White House lawyers, our reporters were told, aiding the president’s legal team as it prepares a rebuttal. In what appeared to be a warning from Kim Jong-un to President Trump, North Korea said today that it had test-fired a new type of “tactical guided weapon.” There was no evidence that the test involved a nuclear detonation or an intercontinental ballistic missile.Analysts said the test shows that Mr. Kim is reverting to sabre-rattling as he moves to end the sanctions that are derailing his hopes of rejuvenating North Korea’s economy.What’s next: Mr. Kim said recently that he would give the U.S. until the end of the year to come up with proposals that would lift sanctions, an implicit warning that North Korea might resume nuclear and intercontinental missile testing. Today’s test suggested that he might raise the stakes sooner.Donations from wealthy French families and companies to rebuild the fire-ravaged cathedral in Paris are nearing $1 billion, intensifying the resentment that has been on display during the Yellow Vest protests about economic inequality.“If they’re able to give dozens of millions to rebuild Notre Dame, they should stop telling us that there is no money to pay for social inequalities,” one labor union leader said.Another angle: The Paris Fire Department’s chaplain, the Rev. Jean-Marc Fournier, has emerged as a central figure in the mission to rescue artworks and relics from the blaze. He told our reporter how more than 100 firefighters carried the precious pieces to safety.Yesterday: A man carrying two cans of gasoline, two bottles of lighter fluid and two lighters was arrested after entering St. Patrick’s Cathedral in New York, the police said. The church was undamaged.So-called heartbeat bills — a ban on abortion after a fetal heartbeat is detected, often before a woman even knows she is pregnant — have been on the fringes of the anti-abortion movement for years. But four states have passed such measures this year, and heartbeat bills are moving through the legislatures of 11 others, according to one policy expert.With an increasingly conservative Supreme Court under President Trump, anti-abortion activists hope to overturn Roe v. Wade, the decision that established a federal protection for abortion in 1973. Quotable: “Now is our time,” said Michael Gonidakis, the president of Ohio Right to Life in Columbus. “This is the best court we’ve had in my lifetime, in my parents’ lifetime.”The Daily: Today’s episode is the second of a two-part series on abortion. Listen to Part 1 here. During Susan Wojcicki’s tenure as chief executive of YouTube, she has had to contend with uploads of pedophilia and mass murder. Yet she has largely escaped the public scrutiny that her peers on other platforms have faced.To get a sense of what she is like as a leader, our reporter spoke to more than a dozen current and former employees, and Ms. Wojcicki herself.Tighter rules on Cuba: The Trump administration has imposed new restrictions on dealing with the island, including limiting nonfamily travel and allowing exiles to sue for property seized by the Castro government.New tent cities for immigrants: With existing facilities “beyond capacity,” the federal government will spend nearly $40 million to house detained migrant families and children in Texas.“Infatuated” with Columbine: An 18-year-old woman who officials said was armed and had traveled to Denver before the 20th anniversary of the shooting was found dead of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound.Ex-leader of Peru kills himself: A former president, Alan García, shot himself as the authorities were trying to arrest him in connection with one of the biggest corruption scandals in Latin American history.Pinterest I.P.O.: The digital pin board company has priced its shares at $19 each for today’s initial public offering, a valuation of $12.7 billion.Green buildings, or else: New York City is expected to pass a law to fine buildings that violate new caps on greenhouse gas emissions.Snapshot: Scientists were able to restore some function, above right, to brains from slaughtered pigs, in a study that raises profound questions about the line between life and death.Late-night comedy: Several of the hosts were eager to see Robert Mueller’s report. Jimmy Kimmel said, “Political analysts are going to try to read through these redactions like teenage boys trying to watch scrambled porn on cable in 1985.” What we’re reading: This piece from The Bulwark. “It’s a compelling counterpoint to the idea that being gay and running for president isn’t a big deal in 2019,” says Jeremy Peters, our national political reporter. “Tim Miller’s reaction to Pete Buttigieg kissing his husband onstage at a rally is a reminder that this is still very new.”Cook: Use leftovers to make salmon fried rice. Watch: Roxann Dawson’s faith-based film, “Breakthrough,” tells the story of a miraculous ordeal with an unassuming simplicity, our critic writes.Read: The Pulitzer Prize-winning biographer Robert Caro shares insights into his craft in “Working,” which is new this week on our hardcover nonfiction and combined print and e-book nonfiction best-seller lists. You can find all our lists here.Go: The moment Adam Driver steps onstage in “Burn This” is the most “impressively violent Broadway entrance” in 30 years, our theater critic writes.Smarter Living: The summer blockbuster season is near. Before you sign up for a movie subscription service like MoviePass, Sinemia or AMC’s A-List, check which works at the theaters you go to most often. Be sure to read the terms and conditions, since services have caps on the number of films you can see, or limits on the number of showings you can attend.And we have recommendations on affordable, reusable stand-ins for single-use plastic straws, spoons and containers.Thailand’s king is Maha Vajiralongkorn Bodindradebayavarangkun. That’s not his entire name, but that’s all we use in The Times.The leader of the Future Forward Party, which shocked the Thai military establishment in last month’s elections by coming third in the popular vote, is Thanathorn Juangroongruangkit.Family names — a 20th-century innovation in Thailand — are constructed to be distinct, and that often means extra syllables.If foreigners find Thai names to be a mouthful, so, apparently, do Thais, who use nicknames in everyday life. Many people are called Lek (Thai for small), Nok (bird) and Poo (crab and, please, it’s pronounced more like “boo”).This writer’s younger son has played soccer against an Ice, a Python and a Bar Code. A girl in our building is called DTAC, which is the name of a cellphone operator.But nothing compares with the full name for Bangkok. It starts with Krungthep Mahanakhon Amon Rattanakosin Mahinthara Ayuthaya and continues for more than 40 syllables.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and Kenneth R. Rosen for the break from the news. Hannah Beech, our Southeast Asia bureau chief, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com. P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is the second of a two-part series on abortion.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Toss in the trash (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times has more than 30 international bureaus. More than a few have cats. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressApril 21: Actress Elaine May is 87. Actor Charles Grodin is 84. Singer Iggy Pop is 72. Actress Patti LuPone is 70. Actor Tony Danza is 68. Actress Andie MacDowell is 61. Singer Robert Smith of The Cure is 60. Guitarist Michael Timmins of Cowboy Junkies is 60. Actor-director John Cameron Mitchell (""Hedwig and the Angry Inch"") is 56. Rapper Michael Franti of Spearhead is 53. Actress Leslie Silva (""In the Dark,"" ''Providence"") is 51. Singer Glen Hansard is 49. Comedian Nicole Sullivan (""King of Queens"") is 49. Guitarist David Brenner of Theory of a Deadman is 41. Actor James McAvoy (""The Last King of Scotland,"" ''The Chronicles of Narnia"") is 40. Actor Terrence J (""Think Like A Man"") is 37. Actor Frank Dillane (""Fear the Walking Dead"") is 28. Singer Sydney Sierota of Echosmith is 22.April 22: Actress Estelle Harris (""Seinfeld"") is 91. Actor Jack Nicholson is 82. Singer Mel Carter is 80. Country singer Cleve Francis is 74. Director John Waters is 73. Singer Peter Frampton is 69. Singer Paul Carrack (Squeeze, Mike and the Mechanics) is 68. Actor Joseph Bottoms is 65. Actor Ryan Stiles (""The Drew Carey Show"") is 60. Comedian Byron Allen (""Real People"") is 58. Actor Chris Makepeace is 55. Guitarist Fletcher Dragge of Pennywise is 53. Actor Jeffrey Dean Morgan (""The Good Wife,"" ''Grey's Anatomy"") is 53. Actress Sheryl Lee (""Twin Peaks"") is 52. TV personality Sherri Shepherd (""The View"") is 52. Country singer Heath Wright of Ricochet is 52. Country singer Kellie Coffey is 48. Actor Eric Mabius (""Ugly Betty"") is 48. Bassist Shavo Odadjian of System of a Down is 45. Singer-guitarist Daniel Johns of Silverchair is 40. Actress Amber Heard is 33. Drummer Tripp Howell of LANCO is 30. Rapper Machine Gun Kelly is 29.April 23: Actor David Birney is 80. Actor Lee Majors (""Six Million Dollar Man"") is 80. Actress Blair Brown is 72. Actress Joyce DeWitt (""Three's Company"") is 70. Actor James Russo is 66. Director Michael Moore is 65. Actress Judy Davis is 64. Actress Valerie Bertinelli is 59. Actor Craig Sheffer (""One Tree Hill,"" ''Into the West"") is 59. Comedian George Lopez is 58. Actress Melina Kanakaredes (""Providence"") is 52. Drummer Stan Frazier of Sugar Ray is 51. Guitarist Tim Womack of Sons of the Desert is 51. Actor Scott Bairstow (""Party of Five"") is 49. Actor John Lutz (""30 Rock"") is 46. Musicians Aaron and Bryce Dessner of The National are 43. Wrestler-turned-actor John Cena (""The Marine"") is 42. Actor-comedian John Oliver is 42. Actor Kal Penn (""House M.D.,"" ''Harold and Kumar"") is 42. Singer Taio Cruz is 36. Actor Jesse Lee Soffer (""Chicago P.D.,"" ""Chicago Fire"") is 35. Guitarist Anthony LaMarca of The War On Drugs is 32. Actor Dev Patel (""Slumdog Millionaire"") is 29. Actor Matthew Underwood (""Zoey 101"") is 29. Model Gigi Hadid is 24. Musicians Jake and Josh Kiszka of Greta Van Fleet are 23. Actor Charlie Rowe (""Salvation"") is 23.April 24: Actress Shirley MacLaine is 85. Actress-singer-director Barbra Streisand is 77. Country singer Richard Sterban of the Oak Ridge Boys is 76. Drummer Doug Clifford (Creedence Clearwater Revival) is 74. Singer Ann Peebles is 72. Singer-keyboardist Rob Hyman of The Hooters is 69. Actor Eric Bogosian is 66. Singer-bassist Jack Blades of Night Ranger is 65. Actor Michael O'Keefe (""Roseanne"") is 64. Bassist David J (Love and Rockets, Bauhaus) is 62. Actor Glenn Morshower (""24"") is 60. Bassist Billy Gould (Faith No More) is 56. Actor-comedian Cedric the Entertainer is 55. Actor Djimon Hounsou (""Blood Diamond,"" ''Amistad"") is 55. Drummer Patty Schemel (Hole) is 52. Drummer Aaron Comess of the Spin Doctors is 51. Actor Aidan Gillen (""Game of Thrones"") is 51. Actress Melinda Clarke (""The O.C."") is 50. Actor Rory McCann (""Game of Thrones"") is 50. Bassist Brian Marshall of Creed and of Alter Bridge is 46. Actor Derek Luke (""Madea Goes To Jail,"" ''Friday Night Lights"") is 45. Actor Thad Luckinbill (""12 Strong,"" ''The Young and the Restless"") is 44. Actor Eric Balfour (""24"") is 42. Actress Rebecca Mader (""No Ordinary Family,"" ''Lost"") is 42. Actress Reagan Gomez (""Queen Sugar,"" ''The Parent 'Hood"") is 39. Actor Austin Nichols (""One Tree Hill"") is 39. Actress Sasha Barrese (""The Hangover"") is 38. Singer Kelly Clarkson (""American Idol"") is 37. Singer-bassist Tyson Ritter of All-American Rejects is 35. Country singer Carly Pearce is 29. Actor Joe Keery (""Stranger Things"") is 27. Actor Jack Quaid (""The Hunger Games"") is 27. Actor Jordan Fisher (""Liv and Maddie,"" ''Rent: Live"") is 25.April 25: Actor Al Pacino is 79. ""Dancing With The Stars"" judge Len Goodman is 75. Bassist Stu Cook of Creedence Clearwater Revisited is 74. Singer Bjorn Ulvaeus of ABBA is 74. Actress Talia Shire is 74. Actor Jeffrey DeMunn (""The Green Mile"") is 72. Country singer-songwriter Rob Crosby is 65. Actor Hank Azaria (""The Simpsons"") is 55. Singer Andy Bell of Erasure is 55. Bassist Eric Avery (Jane's Addiction) is 54. Guitarist Rory Feek of Joey and Rory is 54. Former ""Early Show"" host Jane Clayson is 52. Actress Gina Torres (""I Think I Love My Wife"") is 50. Actress Renee Zellweger is 50. Actor Jason Lee (""My Name Is Earl,"" ''Almost Famous"") is 49. Actor Jason Wiles (""Third Watch"") is 49. Actress Emily Bergl (""Southland"") is 44. Actress Marguerite Moreau (""The O.C.,"" ''Life As We Know It"") is 42. Singer Jacob Underwood (O-Town) is 39. Actress Allisyn Ashley Arm (""Sonny With A Chance"") is 23. Actress Jayden Rey (""The Conners"") is 10.April 26: Actress-comedian Carol Burnett is 86. Guitarist-songwriter Duane Eddy is 81. Singer Maurice Williams of Maurice and the Zodiacs is 81. Singer Bobby Rydell is 77. Singer Gary Wright is 76. Actor Giancarlo Esposito (""Revolution,"" ''Breaking Bad"") is 61. Drummer Roger Taylor of Duran Duran is 59. Actress Joan Chen (""Twin Peaks"") is 58. Drummer Chris Mars of The Replacements is 58. Actor-singer Michael Damian is 57. Actor Jet Li is 56. Guitarist Jimmy Stafford of Train is 55. Actor-comedian Kevin James (""Paul Blart: Mall Cop,"" ''The King of Queens"") is 54. Keyboardist Jeff Huskins of Little Texas is 53. Fiddler Joe Caverlee of Yankee Grey is 51. Singer T-Boz of TLC is 49. Actress Shondrella Avery (""Napoleon Dynamite"") is 48. Bassist Jay DeMarcus of Rascal Flatts is 48. Actress Simbi Kali (""3rd Rock From The Sun"") is 48. Bassist Michael Jeffers of Pinmonkey is 47. Drummer Jose Pasillas of Incubus is 43. Actor Jason Earles (""Hannah Montana"") is 42. Actor Leonard Earl Howze (""Barbershop"") is 42. Actor Amin Joseph (""Snowfall"") is 42. Actor Tom Welling (""Smallville"") is 42. Actor Pablo Schreiber (""Orange is the New Black,"" ''Weeds"") is 41. Actor Nyambi Nyambi (""Mike and Molly"") is 40. Actress Jordana Brewster (""The Fast and The Furious"") is 39. Actress Stana Katic (""Castle"") is 39. Actress Marnette Patterson (""Something So Right"") is 39. Actor Channing Tatum (""Step Up"") is 39. Actress Emily Wickersham (""NCIS"") is 35. Musician James Sunderland of Frenship is 32.April 27: Actress Anouk Aimee is 87. Singer Kate Pierson of The B-52's is 71. Singer Herbie Murrell of The Stylistics is 70. Actor Douglas Sheehan (""Knots Landing"") is 70. Guitarist Ace Frehley (Kiss) is 68. Singer Sheena Easton is 60. Actor James Le Gros (""Ally McBeal"") is 57. Bassist Rob Squires of Big Head Todd and the Monsters is 54. Singer Mica Paris is 50. Drummer Patrick Hallahan of My Morning Jacket is 41. Singer Jim James of My Morning Jacket is 41. Singer-guitarist Travis Meeks of Days of the New is 40. Bassist Joseph Pope the Third of Nathaniel Rateliff and the Night Sweats is 40. Guitarist John Osborne of the Brothers Osborne is 37. Actor Francis Capra (""Veronica Mars"") is 36. Actress Ari Graynor (""Nick and Norah's Infinite Playlist"") is 36. Singer-guitarist Patrick Stump of Fall Out Boy is 35. Actress Sheila Vand (""24: Legacy"") is 34. Actress Jenna Coleman (""Victoria,"" ''Doctor Who"") is 33. Singer Nick Noonan of Karmin is 33. Actor William Moseley (""The Chronicles of Narnia"") is 32. Actress Emily Rios (""Breaking Bad"") is 30.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)The future of Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane is in question after an Ethiopian Airlines flight crashed yesterday, killing 157 people.The Ethiopian Airlines flight was the second disaster involving the jet in five months, after a Lion Air crash in Indonesia killed 189 people in October. It’s rare for two planes of the same model to be involved in accidents in such a short time span, the NYT reports.The 737 Max is core to Boeing’s business. It’s the company’s best-selling model (list price: $120 million). Since its introduction in 2017, 350 planes have been delivered, and 5,000 more are currently on order. Chris Bryant of Bloomberg Opinion notes that its success is why Boeing shares are near a record high — though shares were down sharply in premarket trading.China and Indonesia have grounded the Max 8 jets. China’s airlines had been enthusiastic customers of the new model, but as of this morning they’ve been flying 737-800s instead.Concerns may give rivals a leg up. The 737 Max was created to counter Airbus’s latest A320 variant. Meanwhile, the Chinese plane maker Comac has been testing the C919, a rival of those jets, and has hoped to find buyers beyond China.Undeterred by a recent loss to Democrats, President Trump is expected to ask for $8.6 billion to finance a border wall in the next White House budget, which is to be sent to Congress today.• The proposal also includes $3.6 billion to replenish military construction funds that were diverted under a national emergency declaration.• “I would just say that the whole issue of the wall and border security is of paramount importance,” said Larry Kudlow, the president’s top economic adviser.• Democrats rebuffed the proposal. “Congress refused to fund his wall, and he was forced to admit defeat,” Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Senator Chuck Schumer said in a joint statement. “The same thing will repeat itself if he tries this again.”The request is largely for show. As the NYT notes, the White House budget “will serve more as a statement of values and a vehicle for political positioning than a plausible outline for how the government will actually raise and spend money.”Don’t expect the budget to be balanced, regardless of whether the wall funding is included.[Sign Up for the DealBook Newsletter and make sense of major business and policy headlines.]In a push to strike a trade deal, the U.S. may be at risk of signing a watered-down agreement.A potential compromise could enable a deal to be reached this spring, Keith Bradsher and Ana Swanson write.• Washington has been pushing Beijing to agree to a so-called enforcement mechanism that would allow the U.S. to monitor China’s behavior and impose penalties for violations.• Wang Shouwen, China’s vice minister of commerce for international trade negotiations, said on Saturday that China would be amenable to an agreement that gave each side an equal right to take trade actions.But China’s promises not to manipulate its currency don’t seem to be particularly original, Mr. Bradsher writes:• American negotiators want China to avoid devaluing its currency to achieve a competitive advantage for their exports.• But “currency provisions of the evolving trade agreement are essentially a reaffirmation of the statement that the G-20 economies, including China, issued” in 2016.The bigger picture is a growing concern that, as the NYT Editorial Board points out, the Trump administration “may settle for an ephemeral victory at the expense of America’s long-term economic interests.”Tomorrow, the British Parliament is to vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s deal for leaving the E.U. Right now, its chances for approval don’t look good.Talks between Britain and Brussels are deadlocked, according to Mrs. May’s office. Negotiators have been trying to secure last-minute changes to win over British lawmakers, after a previous version of the agreement was overwhelmingly rejected by Parliament.Some hard-line Brexiters say defeat is “inevitable.” And a former Brexit secretary, David Davis, has said that even a proposal for Mrs. May to step down in exchange for support of her deal would “not get the vote through.”Meanwhile, those who want to stay in the E.U. have “wind in the sails,” according to the British foreign secretary, Jeremy Hunt, who said over the weekend that there is a real risk of “losing Brexit.” If Mrs. May’s deal is rejected, lawmakers would vote on whether to reject a no-deal Brexit and delay the withdrawal process. That could increase the chances of a second referendum.More: Brexit has reportedly spurred financial firms to move $1.2 trillion in assets and funds out of Britain. And the Bank of England has told some British lenders to triple holdings of easy-to-sell assets to weather a no-deal Brexit.The Fed chairman gave a rare interview to “60 Minutes” about the economy, future interest rate increases — and whether President Trump could dismiss him.On job security: Here’s the exchange between Mr. Powell and Scott Pelley of “60 Minutes”:Pelley: Can the president fire you?Powell: Well, the law is clear that I have a four-year term. And I fully intend to serve it.Pelley: So no, in your view?Powell: No.On the U.S. economy: Mr. Powell said that America was in “a good place,” with a favorable outlook on inflation. The Fed’s interest rate policy, he added, is “appropriate.” (Translation: Don’t be surprised if the Fed keeps rates steady until it has a better idea of the outlook for the year.)On the global economy: Mr. Powell feels more concerned, telling Mr. Pelley, “We’ve seen increasing evidence of the global economy slowing down.” The biggest potential shocks to the U.S., the Fed chairman said, could come from slower growth in China and Europe, as well as Brexit.More: How central bankers around the world are taking cues from the Fed by reducing interest rate increases to cushion slowing economies.We’re now a decade into one of the great rallies in stock market history, which has seen the S&P 500 surge 305 percent and the creation of $30 trillion in wealth. Matt Phillips tried to explain why  most Americans are subdued after the latest rally:• “To buy stocks, you need money. After watching their fortunes — and retirement funds — shrivel, few Americans were in a position to take a fresh flier on beaten-down stocks.”• “Even those who are invested are behaving differently, both in how they invest and what they’re doing with the proceeds.”• “In 2017, 43 percent of all the money in American stock market funds was in index funds. Back in 2007, only 19 percent of stock market assets were in these passive strategies, a style of investing that acknowledges that, for most people, trying to beat the market through savvy trading is a mug’s game.”• “The psychological and financial damage inflicted by the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing Great Recession continue to weigh heavily.”• Research suggests that “enduring financial traumas at a relatively young age can shape people’s behavior for decades.” That could mean that younger Americans “are unlikely to be eager to take big risks in the stock market any time soon.”A year ago, Twitter’s C.E.O., Jack Dorsey, said that he wanted the company to make the conversations on its platform healthier. Kurt Wagner of Recode finds that the effort is failing.• “There’s no widely adopted way to quantify the health of human interaction, especially at the internet’s scale.” But the measures that Twitter and researchers are considering include a “toxicity” metric and one that takes note of civility, receptivity and constructivity, helped by researchers from Oxford and Leiden Universities.• “The research teams that Twitter announced last July to help them work on this project haven’t even started. One of the two teams has abandoned the project altogether. Internal metrics Twitter is building on its own are still in the ‘experimentation’ phase and aren’t being tested in the wild.”• “Lawyers for Twitter and Leiden haven’t been able to solidify the data-sharing and privacy details for the partnership, which means the researchers are simply waiting.”In an op-ed for the FT, Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the I.M.F., writes that it’s time to overhaul international corporate tax rules:• “The ease with which multinationals seem able to avoid tax and the three-decade-long decline in corporate tax rates compromise faith in the fairness of the international system.”• One solution, she says, is to create minimum-tax schemes. “Reduce the scope for shifting profits to low-tax locations,” she suggests, or “allow low-income countries to retain more revenue by imposing minimum withholding taxes on cross-border payments.”• Another is to “create a system that fully taxes routine profits — something like a normal return on investment — on basic activities in the country in which they take place, while splitting any remaining profits among all the relevant nations.”Sam Altman stepped down as president of Y Combinator, but remains chairman of the start-up incubator.Bill Shine stepped down as White House communications director to take a position on President Trump’s re-election campaign.Bank of America named James Robertson and Peter Luck as co-heads of investment banking for Britain.DealsNvidia agreed to buy the chip maker Mellanox for about $7 billion. (CNBC)Deutsche Bank’s C.E.O., Christian Sewing, is said to have dropped his opposition to a possible merger with Commerzbank. (FT)The talent agency Endeavor unwound a $400 million investment from Saudi Arabia after receiving financial help from other investors. (NYT)The Wall Street financiers Josh Harris and David Blitzer are reportedly considering selling their majority stake in the English soccer club Crystal Palace. (Bloomberg)Politics and policyThe White House reportedly plans to issue executive orders on issues with bipartisan appeal, including drug pricing and the opioid epidemic. (Axios)Joe Biden and Senator Bernie Sanders led a poll of likely Iowa caucusgoers, solidifying their standing as front-runners for the Democratic presidential nomination. (NYT)A poll found that the company most popular with Democrats was Kraft Heinz, while for Republicans it was Chick-fil-A — and for independents, it was Amazon. (Axios)Mr. Trump falsely claimed he didn’t call Tim Cook “Tim Apple.” (Axios)TradeThe U.S. worries that Germany’s new gas pipeline will make the country too reliant on Russia. (WSJ)The U.N. says North Korea has been undermining sanctions meant to pressure it into giving up nuclear weapons. (WSJ)TechElizabeth Warren has vowed to break up big tech companies, and Amy Klobuchar has argued that companies that make money off user data should perhaps pay more in taxes. (FT, Verge)Tesla says it will have to raise the price of its Model S and X vehicles about 3 percent to keep more stores open and still sell the $35,000 version of its Model 3. (Tesla)Facebook reportedly has a 6,000-person security team to quietly protect the social network’s employees. (Business Insider)The Trump administration wants to use social media to help identify people who are receiving federal disability benefits without being truly disabled. (NYT)Silicon Valley wants to build a monument to … Silicon Valley. (NYT)Best of the restQatar reportedly offered $400 million to FIFA just three weeks before the nation was named host of the 2022 World Cup. (Times of London)Wells Fargo says that its culture has changed in light of numerous scandals, but employees disagree. (NYT)What will a contempt hearing mean for Elon Musk? Also, Tesla investors are suing the company to stop Mr. Musk from tweeting. (DealBook, Fortune)Female bankers have criticized UBS over the way it cuts bonus payments after maternity leave. (FT)Sotheby’s, the art auction house, turns 275 today. Its first auction? A sale of “several hundred scarce and valuable books,” which fetched £826. (Sotheby’s)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering a shift in how manufacturers think about China, a rise in anti-Semitism and a policy change in the Mormon Church.Whatever deal Washington and Beijing reach on trade, global companies have already started shifting their supply chains from China, just as some Trump administration officials had wanted.Despite President Trump’s promises to bring jobs back to the U.S., most of the work is moving to countries with lower costs. China will remain a vital manufacturing hub, but chief executives say the trade war has prompted a fundamental reassessment. Yesterday: Mr. Trump said that an “epic” trade pact could be weeks away and that he may soon meet with the Chinese president.Related: The U.S. economy added 196,000 jobs in March, suggesting that an unexpectedly weak showing in February was an anomaly in a record run of hiring. The unemployment rate remained unchanged, at 3.8 percent, the Labor Department reported today.For months, the aircraft manufacturer dismissed concerns about the anti-stall system on its 737 Max jets, saying pilots could avoid problems by following a checklist.But investigators’ preliminary findings from the Ethiopian Airlines crash last month showed that the pilots could not regain control even after following Boeing’s procedures. The report, released Thursday, adds to the scrutiny that Boeing and federal regulators are facing after two deadly crashes.Response: Boeing’s chief executive acknowledged on Thursday that the anti-stall software had played a role in the crash. “It’s our responsibility to eliminate this risk,” Dennis Muilenburg said. “We own it, and we know how to do it.”What’s next: The report, which could change as it’s completed, doesn’t rule out the potential for pilot error.Signaling his intent to put allies on a traditionally independent body, Mr. Trump said on Thursday that he planned to nominate Mr. Cain, a former pizza executive and a 2012 Republican presidential candidate, for a seat on the Federal Reserve Board. It’s the second time in weeks that the president has suggested candidates with deeply held political views for a Fed seat. Last month, Mr. Trump said he planned to nominate Stephen Moore, a conservative economist who advised his campaign and has, like the president, become a vocal critic of the central bank’s rate increases.Background: Presidents have long stocked regulatory agencies with partisan appointees, but the Fed’s seven-member board has largely been an exception given the role it plays in the economy.Yesterday: Mr. Trump, ignoring his own history with women, posted a video on Twitter that mocked Joe Biden. The former vice president, who is still expected to enter the 2020 presidential race, has been accused by several women of touching them in ways that made them feel uncomfortable. We asked for readers’ opinions about Mr. Biden’s interactions.Most casual listeners are familiar with hip-hop’s 1 percent — Jay-Z, Drake, Cardi B. But Nipsey Hussle, who was fatally shot in Los Angeles last weekend, was a member of rap’s middle class, who can do well for themselves without reaching mainstream mega-fame.Many stay close to home for financial and personal reasons, but doing so can make them reachable targets. “Sometimes keeping it real is too much,” said Wack 100, a prominent rap manager. “When you’re that accessible, that common, then it becomes easy to get to you.”Catch up: Hussle was shot in the Crenshaw neighborhood of South Los Angeles, where he grew up, outside a clothing store he owned. On Thursday, prosecutors charged a suspect with his murder.Polling suggests that anti-Semitic attitudes may be no more widespread than in the past, particularly in Western Europe. But extremists have seemingly become more brazen, as in the torch-lit march pictured above in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017. That climate is being used for political ends by ideologies that otherwise barely overlap: the far left, Europe’s radical Islamist fringe, and even politicians from the Democratic and Republican parties. Request for Brexit delay: Prime Minister Theresa May asked the European Union today to delay Britain’s departure from the bloc for a second time, until June 30.U.S. role in Yemen: The House passed a bipartisan resolution on Thursday demanding an end to military involvement in Saudi Arabia’s war in Yemen. The measure, a rebuke to President Trump over his defense of the kingdom after the killing of the dissident Jamal Khashoggi, most likely sets up the second veto of Mr. Trump’s presidency.Mormon Church rescinds policy: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints has said it will allow children of same-sex couples to be baptized, reversing a 2015 rule banning such ceremonies and labeling those in same-sex marriages as apostates.The 2020 election: Representative Tim Ryan of Ohio has announced a presidential bid, bringing the Democratic primary field to 17. Here’s a look at who’s running.From Opinion: As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? A limited-run newsletter will explore what’s at stake. Sign up here.Snapshot: Above, the textured silver building at left is the Shed, a $475 million arts center that opens today as part of the Hudson Yards development in Manhattan. Read our guide. N.C.A.A. basketball: We preview the women’s Final Four, which starts tonight, and the men’s, which begins on Saturday.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Modern Love: In this week’s column, a woman finds that purging her possessions, and some of her anatomy, reveals what she treasures most.Late-night comedy: Stephen Colbert questioned Attorney General William Barr’s summary of the special counsel’s report: “That’s like tuning in to see the new season of ‘Game of Thrones,’ and it’s just Barr holding a sign that says, ‘Dragons did some stuff. The end.’”What we’re reading: This short story in The New Yorker, recommended by Gillian Wong, our editor specializing in China coverage. She writes: “Te-Ping Chen, a Wall Street Journal reporter until recently based in Beijing, imagines Chinese twins in the internet era whose lives take them in vastly different directions.”Cook: End the week with lemon cream cheese cookies. Watch: “Call the Midwife” (PBS) and “The Chi” (Showtime) are among the best small-screen broadcasts this weekend. Listen: A staple gun. A dental drill. See how Billie Eilish made a haunted pop hit in our latest Diary of a Song.Read: “The Promise of Elsewhere,” by Brad Leithauser, is a comic novel in which a depressed American academic ends up in Greenland. It’s one of nine new books we recommend this week. Smarter Living: Want to get rid of your laptop, tablet or cellphone? If they’re too old to reuse, you can send them to a smelter to be reclaimed by “urban mining” — the devices often contain copper, silver, gold and lithium.Also, if you feel like you don’t have the time to read, try bite-size books.The Times has been covering the Chinese government’s internment of hundreds of thousands of Muslims — perhaps over a million — in the western region of Xinjiang. We asked Chris Buckley, one of the reporters involved, to explain the leadership’s rationale.The cost of internal strife is a major concern to China’s leaders, who have only to look to the Taiping Rebellion of the 1850s. That internal war, which claimed 20 million or more lives, remains one of the world’s bloodiest.The mass internments in Xinjiang reflect the leadership’s view that the religion and culture of Uighurs and other Muslim minorities are widely “infected” by antigovernment sentiments that could foment unrest and terrorism.Uighurs — a Turkic people — have had an uneasy, sometimes violent, relationship with the Chinese Communist authorities since 1949.In the 1980s and 1990s, the government allowed more space for the Uighurs’ language and customs. But policies became increasingly hard-line, especially after ethnic rioting in 2009 that killed at least 200 people. In 2014, more than 30 people were killed in an attack by Uighurs in southwest China. There were many smaller-scale attacks as well.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the battle to control Rupert Murdoch’s media empire.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: “Dumbo” director Burton (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times has had a Chinese-language website since 2012 and a Spanish-language website since 2016. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" 

      Interview by DAVID MARCHESE

MARCH 19, 2019

‘I try and make it so that if anyone’s offended, I can explain why they shouldn’t be.’
Ricky Gervais on provocation, picking targets and outrage culture.In Ricky Gervais’s new Netflix show, “After Life,” he plays a small-town journalist who, after being widowed, abandons all the rote politesse the rest of us rely on to get comfortably through our days. As is always the case with Gervais’s work — he’s probably still best known as the co-creator and star of the original “The Office” — some deeply cringe-inducing comedic moments ensue. “Anything you do that’s the slightest bit interesting,” Gervais said, “as many people are going to hate it as love it.” Indeed, since “The Office,” which debuted in 2001, Gervais’s output — whether television, film or stand-up — has been divisive, at times drawing criticism for being smug or mawkish but never at any detriment to his popularity. “There’s no objectivity about comedy,” said the 57-year-old, a frequent Twitter lightning rod. “You’ve just got to own your emotions.”Has social media changed the way the public perceives your work? Yes, and here’s an example: 20 years ago, if you saw something on TV that offended you and you wanted to let someone know, you would’ve had to get a pen and paper and write, “Dear BBC, I’m bothered.” But you didn’t do it because it was too much trouble. Now with Twitter, you can just go, “[Expletive] you!” to a comedian who’s offended you. Then a journalist will see that and say, “So-and-so said a thing and people are furious.” No. The rest of us don’t give a [expletive] and wouldn’t have heard about it if it hadn’t been made a headline. Everything is exaggerated. But everything’s also an illusion. No one would talk to you in the street like they do on Twitter. They’d never come up and say, “Your articles stink.” They’d never do that because they’re normal, but they’re not normal on Twitter because there’s no nuance, no irony, no conversation there.So why should we take it seriously? You don’t. If you ignore it on Twitter, it didn’t happen. It’s like going into a toilet stall and arguing with graffiti. If you don’t go there, it doesn’t exist.But you go there. I do. For fun. Or sometimes research. If I’m doing a warm-up show and I’m about five minutes short of material, I’ll search Twitter for provocative things. You find those dark corners. That’s a good thing about Twitter: I used to have to meet these maniacs, like Agent Clarice Starling meeting Hannibal Lecter. Now I can find the dregs from the safety of my Hampstead mansion.Has Twitter been good for your comedy? It has. I can see a cross section of society a thousand times faster than I could’ve otherwise. I’ve got 13 million followers. That’s the world, really. I’ll tweet, “What’s a subject you should never joke about?” Some people fall for the trap and say something like, “Psoriasis.” Then I can come up with 10 minutes on that.Sounds like a good 10 minutes. What’s something that you’ve researched online that was helpful in developing a joke that way? There’s loads of things. Onstage I’ll read out responses to “These are the things you should never joke about,” and whatever I say is quite funny because in your head you think of this one person being angry about the joke. People think someone joking about their issue is the worst thing in the world. I did a joke on “Fallon” about peanut allergies, and someone said I should never talk about food allergies. I joke about AIDS, famine, cancer, the Holocaust and you’re telling me I shouldn’t joke about allergies? The audience has got to be clever enough to know when I’m playing the idiot and saying the wrong thing for comic effect. That’s one of the things of comedy: laughing at the wrong thing because you know what the right thing is.What makes you confident that your audience knows? All you can do is give clues. I did a tweet that said something like, “I’m your typical liberal, lefty, socialist, snowflake. I agree with antiracists … and yet if I talk about freedom of speech, I’m suddenly alt-right.”1 When did that happen?You’re saying Twitter is a dirty toilet stall of human thought, but you also rely on it to generate material. Aren’t there more interesting places to look? Do you mean, why am I fighting the easiest targets? Why am I picking extreme examples? Because I’m a comedian, not a politician. My job is to be funny. If I can do that with a little intelligence and fall on the right side, that’s a bonus. To answer your other question, “Do I care that there’s someone who’s taking my irony at face value?” You can’t legislate against stupidity. These are fair questions you’re asking but unfair to only ask comedians. The misunderstanding with contentious subjects is that if a comedian deals with them people think he’s taking the wrong side. I’ve heard posh radio shows discussing whether Ricky Gervais should be “dealing with this” in his comedy. Well, you’re talking about it! Why can’t I deal with it in comedy? You might not like what I say, but that doesn’t mean I shouldn’t deal with it.To my mind the bigger question isn’t about whether somebody should or shouldn’t joke about a subject, because, of course, everything is fair game. No, not of course. Everyone says that, and then there’s one thing that makes them go: “Too soon! Wrong forum!” When I write a joke, it’s not like I’ve gone, “That’s funny, and I don’t care who hates it.” I try and make it so that if anyone’s offended, I can explain why they shouldn’t be.What I was saying is that any rational person listening in good faith probably believes that any subject is on the table for a joke. That’s right, but it’s rare.So the more important question is whether the jokes are aimed at worthwhile targets, and if they’re cheap or not. I understand your point, and it is a fair question. The joke I do in my “Humanity” special about “When you’re being raped by Satan, I’ll be laughing” — that’s irresistible because it’s so mental. If it was less mental, it wouldn’t be as funny. If someone says, “I don’t agree with your atheism” — O.K. I can’t go anywhere with that as a joke. So I pick extreme examples because they’re funnier.The material from “Humanity” that provoked — And I knew what that would be before the special went out: Caitlyn Jenner.My question is not about the Caitlyn Jenner-specific jokes. You build that bit out into this larger thing about transgender identification, and you get to a part about wanting to self-identify as a chimp named Bobo. Is that an instance in which the material was intellectually achieving what you wanted to achieve? That bit changes halfway through. So I come out and I’m explaining the joke from the Golden Globes, which I stand by. It was about a celebrity killing someone with their car.2 That clearly is the joke. But then I say people thought I was in a feud with Caitlyn Jenner, and I go: “It was clickbait. Of course, I rose to the bait.” So I’m saying I’m spoiled and childish. Then I get more and more spoiled and childish as the bit goes on. I become the idiot who believes that being transgender is the same as changing into a chimp. But I have to do the joke like I mean it for it to work.To connect this to something you said earlier: Was the audience laughing at the right thing there? You don’t think a lot of people were just laughing at the comparison of a transgender person to someone who wants to identify as a chimp? Some people are logical and get it. Some of it is also people saying, “I might not agree with him, and he’s gone too far, but I’m glad he’s not scared to talk about it.” I’m talking about the subject again in my new material. I’m talking about cases where people aren’t trans but they’re saying they are to get put into women’s prison where they can rape women.That isn’t really a thing, is it? Oh, yeah, actual thing.3 I say that genuine trans people should be up in arms about this. I’m very clear that the perpetrators I’m talking about aren’t trans people. Then I play with it and get things wrong within the joke.Why do transgender people seem like such ripe subject matter for you? Is it that you’re on some level uncomfortable with it? It’s because of Twitter. You look at Twitter, and it seems like it’s trans activists versus TERFs,4 and it’s all going to end like a battle scene from “Game of Thrones.” Then you go into the real world, and it’s not happening at all.You might want to spend less time on social media. I’m fine as long as I can properly calibrate what’s there online and also still remember to walk outside in the sun.That sounds like a drug addict saying, “I’m fine as long as I balance my uppers and downers.” I could be wrong. But no, I know I’m not. There are idiots on Twitter. But there are idiots on the High Street. They just don’t talk to you.I imagine it’s possible your critics aren’t willing to give you credit for the way you move in your stand-up from telling jokes intended to be understood as dumb to telling jokes intended to be understood as smart. Is that elision part of what bothers people? Well, exactly. I’ll have smartass plays on religious belief5 or whatever and then go the other way. Most people haven’t got the time to analyze the jokes, and I go in and out of the parody too fast for some. But as long as I know the target and some people get it and agree with me, I think the jokes are justified.This is in the realm of a therapist’s question, but you often play these characters, whether it’s David Brent in “The Office” or Tony in “After Life” who compulsively commit social faux pas. How much of that is you? Do you feel as if you always have a level of self-awareness about what you’re saying? I try to. I do ironic jokes in my social life. All people do that when they joke with each other, and they don’t have to explain themselves. Whereas you do feel the need to explain jokes to strangers. Deep down, I want those 10,000 strangers who come to see me perform to know I’m a nice guy.Why’d you get into stand-up? You’re not one of these comedians who was doing it at 20. No, I wasn’t. God, I would have been awful. I didn’t know anything. I can’t think what I would have talked about. Before I could do it, I had to learn to relate. Getting fat and old and ugly helped with that. I don’t know if you’ve heard of Simon Amstell. He’s a British comedian. He once said something about young, handsome people doing comedy, like, People are already looking at you; why do you need this?Do you need it? I don’t. I do enjoy it. I didn’t enjoy it as much doing “Humanity.” I think I was proud, rather. I approached it differently. With “Humanity,” I didn’t write it like I did my other specials. Instead, I walked out with a can of beer and started talking about stuff, like I do on Twitter. It felt brilliant. The audience engaged straightaway. The other good thing about that special is that the audience has known me for 15 years. So I could throw in self-referential things to get over my not being low status anymore. Traditionally in British comedy, a comedian’s been wallowing in the mud with the people. But people know what comedians earn now, so I can’t go out there and talk about, “Well, I’m on welfare.” So I get my low status in two ways. I talk about money with irony: “When I flew in a private plane the first time, they thought I was the cook.” And the other way I do it is to talk about things where the audience is better off than me. I talk about being fat and old and having descended testicles.Is the idea of being an outsider important to you? It’s really important. But I don’t have to be one with people who have paid to see me. They know I’m one of them who got lucky. But I do have to be an outsider as host at the Golden Globes. That’s when I have to bite the hand that feeds me. Imagine if I went out and was nice to George Clooney? People at home would be going, “Who is this [expletive]?”How do you reconcile your need to be an outsider with the fact that you’re clearly not one anymore? I can still be an outsider by reminding people that the Establishment hates me.They can’t hate you that much. You make TV shows. You play arenas. I am in a privileged position, but I remind the audience that not everyone likes me. And it’s sort of true. I’m the son of an immigrant laborer, and I wear bad jeans and drink [expletive] lager. It’s all part of the illusion. Audiences need to be on your side. You can’t go out and hate an audience and want them to hate you. There’s not enough people that would pay for that, you know? It’s still a business. I’m not ashamed at making money.What’s the best thing you’ve bought with your money? Tennis court.Are you good? Oh, no. But it’s lovely to have.Is there a criticism you’ve gotten that you felt was helpful? Or even just valid? I felt bad for the Tim Allen Golden Globes gag. He and Tom Hanks were handing out an award. I said: “I’ll go to our next two presenters. The first has made over $3.5 billion at the box office, won an Oscar blah blah blah. The second is Tim Allen.” That’s unfair. But it’s unfair because anyone standing next to Tom Hanks is going to get that treatment.Also, who cares? It’s a roast joke about Tim Allen. But I don’t want Tim Allen to think I mean it. He’s had a great career. As long as people go “That’s a bit harsh” rather than “Yes, Tim Allen, you [expletive] useless … ” I’d hate that. It’s just he was the one standing next to Tom Hanks, you know? I do worry about these things. Because there was a person at the end of that joke.Hollywood awards shows are held up these days as of real social importance in a way that they weren’t even a few years back. What do you make of that shift? I’ve got nothing against someone using that platform for a political idea. Despite what people think of me, I’m not judgmental at all. One minute I can be having a go at Hollywood for taking itself too seriously, then I can be having a go at Trump for caring about Hollywood. And I walk between the two sides because I keep my own politics out of my show.Why? Because if you’re relying on an audience agreeing with you, you’re rallying. It loses something comedically. Comedy is an intellectual pursuit, not an emotional one. That’s why I don’t do real racist, sexist, homophobic jokes.I would hope it’s because you’re not a racist, sexist homophobe. Of course. But I do a lot of jokes that aren’t “me,” and I don’t have to remember not to be those things in my real life. It’s like, if you start a joke with “Why do all Mexicans…?” I’ll stop you there, because whatever the answer is, they don’t. Racist jokes don’t work comedically. But jokes about race can.I’m surprised you don’t think comedy is more emotional. Laughing is. But it’s triggered by getting the joke. If you don’t agree with a joke’s premise, you’re not going to be laughing. If Hitler was here now, telling the best jokes in the world, we wouldn’t laugh. We’d be going, “What about all the bad [expletive] he’s done!”A minute ago you said that comedy loses something if the audience is agreeing with you. I think you’re crazy if — Oh, here we go.If you believe that a vast majority of the people who buy a ticket for a Ricky Gervais show don’t agree with what they believe is your take on sensitive subjects. I only play very cosmopolitan areas where they’re smart enough to get the irony. That comes back to the question of why I pick extreme examples. Because they’re easier for people to get. Particularly when you’re doing something contentious, you don’t want to start with a misunderstanding. There are no rules, but when we’re talking about being canceled and wokeness, it is clearer to pick on someone like John Wayne. Canceled 40 years after his death for not being woke in a 48-year-old issue of Playboy magazine!6 His quotes were awful. But what are we to do with it? As an example, I did a joke about taking down Confederate statues. I said: “They should just have amendments on them. ‘Great general. A bit racist.’”On the subject of cancel-them culture, how do you now think about the work of someone like Louis C.K.? Or Kevin Hart. Kevin Hart apologized for his homophobic jokes. If people don’t accept a person’s apology for a mistake, there’s no value in that person trying to improve. And I hate virtue-signaling. I’ll tell you why it’s bad. Because the more pathetic people’s accusation is, the more these people are saying they’re not like the accused. They’re saying, “Look how good I am.” They’re saying, “I hate that thing because I would never do it.” Why are you telling us?Presumably because they were offended. If I wanted to get back: “Well done, Rick! Keep up the good work, boy!” I might as well tweet “I am not a rapist.” Please don’t use that as the headline.You said it. I’m in a cold sweat now.But to get back to my question. How does what we know about the behavior of someone like Louis C.K. affect our thinking about the comedy he has done or is doing now? It depends on the deed, the accusation, the time, how much you liked them. You make your own mind up. The Louis C.K. thing — is he allowed to gig? Yeah, he is. Are people allowed to protest? Yeah, they are. But you can’t change history. When his leaked thing came out, I listened to it. People were saying: “God, it’s terrible. He’s gone alt-right.” And it’s the same contentious stuff they loved when he did it two years ago!I disagree. The problem was that his new material was not good. That’s an opinion.They’re hackier jokes. But my point is nothing to do with the quality of the material. It’s that Louis C.K. isn’t suddenly alt-right. People look at him as if he’s changed his whole outlook to life and the way he writes jokes.Let me ask you a question related to “After Life.” Yes, best do that. I’m already sweating about some of the things that I’ve said.The show is about a man who’s decided, as a result of grief, to dispense with social niceties. As a famous person and a successful person, do you have a different perspective than the rest of us on the value — or lack of value — of obligatory social behaviors that some of us might ditch if we had a little more power? The reason we’re nice to people is because the consequences of not being nice would make our life worse. Why do I lie every day? Because I don’t want to hurt people’s feelings. “Can you come to the christening?” “I can’t. I’m giving blood at the orphanage.” I don’t say: “Why would I want to come to a christening of your baby? It’s boring.”Your last show, “Derek,” was so not about irony or bitterness. “After Life” has those elements, but it also gets at some of the sweetness of “Derek.” Do you see the shows as in conversation with each other? I don’t. I do treat the shows like an exploration into themes. “Derek” is my Ph.D. about kindness. “After Life” is my Ph.D. about social niceties during grief. “The Office” was my Ph.D. about the mundanity of being thrown together in a 9-to-5. “Extras” was my Ph.D. about ambition and fame.I’m curious about what it meant for you that the first project you created, “The Office,” was so highly regarded. Everyone agrees it’s great TV. No, they don’t. Some people hate it, which is comforting. It reminds me that everyone is different, and opinions are subjective and it doesn’t matter.People’s incorrect negative opinions about “The Office” aside, how did the early acclaim shape your self-confidence or self-doubt? You have to ignore it. You know there’s going to be a backlash. With me, it’s every six months. For the last 15, 20 years, at least once a year there’s been an article saying this is the end of Ricky Gervais’s career. The first time, I thought, Really? Is it? The second time, I thought, Is it? Third time, I went, Here we go. Fourth time, I went, No, it’s not. And you should polarize it if you’re doing anything mildly artistic.I guess there was someone somewhere who didn’t like the Beatles. I didn’t.Now that’s offensive. I preferred the Stones. I do appreciate the Beatles now.How do you view the trajectory of your work? Does “The Office” stand apart? No, but I’m always going to have an affection for the show. It was the first time I’d tried my hardest at anything. I’m one of those kids that went, “I didn’t study for this exam and still got an A minus.”Do you have a sense of what you’d be doing if “The Office” had fizzled? Working in a chapeau shop? Maybe a haberdashery? If you want to quote “Spinal Tap” lines, we’ll be here all day! My favorite is “too much [expletive] perspective.” Me and Jane7 said that line every day for about 10 years. I sent Chris Guest8 all six episodes of “After Life.” He sent me back the most beautiful email: “weeping.”This reminds me of an interview you did in which you recalled a conversation you’d had with Christopher Guest. You two had talked about — I think the Englishism you used was “going off the boil.” Yeah, he was saying, “What if we’re not funny anymore, and we don’t know it?” I went, “Who cares?”Do you think a creative person can accurately judge if there’s been a decline in his or her work? Probably not. It depends what your aim is. If it’s to keep getting more and more popular, you’re probably going to fail. If it’s to keep getting paid more, that could work. It’s worked for me! I do get asked, What’s your pipe dream? I’d like to live in the middle of the woods. In a mansion. Surrounded by rescue dogs.9 With all the mod cons that hermetically seal the mansion so spiders can’t get in. That’s my answer.So you’re not one of these tortured artists constantly thinking about how to be more successful? I remember when I was young and had hair I saw that Michael Caine10 said he’d done a “Jaws” movie to buy a new house. I thought, Idiot. You let me down. Now I think, Good on him because a house is a real thing. Rotten Tomatoes11 isn’t a real thing. So within reason I want to do what I want every day, be proud of the work and have a nice life.David Marchese is the magazine’s Talk columnist. Read his previous interviews with Michael J. Fox and John Legend.This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity from two conversations.March 1, 2019March 11, 2019Feb. 22, 2019Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering a White House whistle-blower’s account of security clearance irregularities, intensifying scrutiny on Joe Biden, and a rash of racehorse deaths at a track in California.Politicians might not have figured out Britain’s departure from the European Union, but for much of the business world, Brexit has effectively happened. Banks and other financial services companies have shifted jobs and assets to the Continent, and Japanese automakers have scrapped expansion plans. Whatever comes next, the jobs and money are unlikely to return.Yesterday: Parliament failed to reach a majority on any one of four Brexit proposals, less than two weeks before the departure deadline.What’s next: The European Union’s chief Brexit negotiator, Michel Barnier, warned British lawmakers today that there was no alternative to Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan, which they have rejected three times. Mr. Barnier also said the possibility of a chaotic “no-deal” exit was becoming “day after day more likely.”Senior Trump administration officials granted security clearances to at least 25 people whose applications had been denied by career civil servants for “disqualifying issues,” a White House whistle-blower has told Congress.The whistle-blower, Tricia Newbold, is a manager in the Personnel Security Office. She told a House committee last month that two current senior White House officials were among those who had been rejected, according to a memo that the committee’s Democratic staff released on Monday. (Read the memo.)The memo doesn’t identify any of the 25. The Times reported in February that President Trump had ordered his chief of staff, John Kelly, to grant clearance last year to Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law.Response: The White House did not respond to a request for comment. Congressional Republicans accused Representative Elijah Cummings, chairman of the House Oversight and Reform Committee, of cherry-picking from Ms. Newbold’s interview.Go deeper: Ms. Newbold, who has worked in the White House for 18 years, said she chose to speak to the committee after attempts to raise concerns internally went nowhere.Scrutiny of the former vice president intensified on Monday after a woman said he “put his hand around my neck and pulled me in to rub noses with me” at a fund-raiser in Connecticut in 2009.The allegation by Amy Lappos is similar to one made last week by a former Nevada lawmaker, Lucy Flores, and comes as Mr. Biden prepares for a presidential bid. Response: Mr. Biden’s spokesman, Bill Russo, criticized what he said were misrepresentations of Mr. Biden’s past behavior and sought to link some of the attacks to Republicans.A racist photograph in a yearbook. Accusations of sexual assault. An appearance in blackface at a college party.Over the course of a week in February, revelations about the state’s top three elected officials seemed to threaten their political futures. But calls for resignations have faded, and Gov. Ralph Northam and Lt. Gov. Justin Fairfax have increasingly returned to the public eye.Some Virginians say the crisis burned itself out by the time the legislature adjourned, while polls showed voters were less enthusiastic about resignations than their representatives were. Our correspondent reports from Richmond.Quotable: “Don’t apologize, move on, and everybody will talk about something else next week,” one Democratic strategist said. “Maybe we’ve been doing it wrong over the last 100 years.”Taylor Mac has challenged audiences with his masterwork, “A 24-Decade History of Popular Music.” The one-man, 24-hour show covers 246 songs from revolutionary times to the present, mixing maximalist, spectacular outfits and revisionist American history.The 45-year-old artist, pictured above, is now translating his genius for Broadway in a new play, “Gary: A Sequel to Titus Andronicus.”Emergency aid is stalled: The Senate voted down two disaster relief bills on Monday as Republicans and Democrats clashed over President Trump’s opposition to more help for Puerto Rico.Elections in Turkey: President Recep Tayyip Erdogan’s party said it would challenge the results after completed ballot counting confirmed today that it had lost control of Turkey’s two largest cities, Ankara and Istanbul.Chicago mayoral vote: Two African-American women, Lori Lightfoot and Toni Preckwinkle, are in a runoff today. The city will become the largest in the U.S. to elect a black woman as its mayor.Suspect in rapper’s death: The Los Angeles police have identified a suspect in the fatal shooting of Nipsey Hussle over the weekend. On Monday, at least 19 people were injured during a stampede at a makeshift memorial.Snapshot: Above, cherry trees in Washington on Monday, the day that the blooms were at their peak, according to the National Park Service.N.C.A.A. basketball: The women’s Final Four is set. Baylor will face Oregon, and Notre Dame will play Connecticut on Friday.Horse racing deaths: Twenty-three horses have died since late December at Santa Anita Park, near Los Angeles, endangering the future of horse racing in California.Late-night comedy: “Today was April Fools’ Day, so if you saw anything in the news that was positive, that’s why,” Seth Meyers said.What we’re reading: This piece in Edible Queens. Dan Saltzstein, editorial director for special projects, recommends it, writing: “I adore the Queens Thai restaurant SriPraPhai. This year, it finally got a James Beard Award nomination. I also adore the 75-year-old owner’s modest reaction to the honor.”Cook: A dinner of roasted fish with sweet peppers keeps dishwashing to a minimum. (Our Five Weeknight Dishes newsletter has more recommendations.)Watch: “Dumbo,” Tim Burton’s live-action remake of the Disney tale of the airborne baby elephant, “takes a turn toward the fascinatingly weird,” our critic writes.Read: A history of the 1969 moon landing and a new novel from Sally Rooney, the author of “Conversations With Friends,” are among the 10 books to watch for this month. Listen: Still thinking about Jordan Peele’s “Us”? On our “Still Processing” podcast, two Times reporters, Jenna Wortham and Wesley Morris, discuss the film’s central question (without spoilers): Are any of us ever truly free from the past?Smarter Living: Bored with the same old same-old? Behavioral scientists have found ways to make everyday experiences feel new again. Try changing the layout of your desk, or shifting from your home office to a coffee shop or a library. Less routine means more room for a fresh sense of gratification.And a healthy diet can do more to counter cognitive decline, neurologists say, than dietary supplements.We often ask readers for Back Story ideas. Zach Lewis of Chicago suggested we look at the naming of black and white rhinos, both of which are in fact gray.They have different faces. The black rhino, which tends to eat trees and bushes, has a pointed upper lip, while the grass-grazing white rhino has a broader one.In 2003, Kees Rookmaaker, a rhino researcher, analyzed 10 theories about the names.A popular idea was that the Afrikaans word “wyd,” or Dutch “wijd,” meaning “wide,” became “white.” “Black” was simply an easy contrast.Some other theories: The grazing rhino looked white in grasslands; it rolled in lighter mud or was often covered in bird droppings; albinism is more common among white rhinos; and that at some point, the rhinos were noticeably lighter and darker.The mistranslation theory was the one he found least likely. “There is no record of ‘wydrhinoceros’ in the literature,” he emailed recently, noting that Dutch speakers would have used “breed,” meaning “broad,” rather than “wijd.”Speaking of eye-catching fauna, a new species of tarantula has become a scientific celebrity. But the discovery has renewed an old ethical debate about specimen collection and “biopiracy.”That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Inyoung Kang, a home screen editor based in London, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the persistent racial divide in New York City’s public school system.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Seafood specialty of Maryland (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Times’s Sports section is adding two staff members: David Chen, from our Metro section, as an investigative reporter, and Sopan Deb, from our Culture section, to cover the N.B.A. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Calloway-Blatch and Lance BoothHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. President Trump had invited the publisher of The New York Times to an off-the-record dinner. The publisher, A. G. Sulzberger, said he preferred an on-the-record interview with reporters in the room. Mr. Trump agreed.That led to a wide-ranging interview in the Oval Office on Thursday, during which Mr. Trump called negotiations with Congress over the border wall “a waste of time” and said the job of president was a “loser” financially.Mr. Trump spoke in a low voice, his arms folded tightly, during questions about the Russia inquiry. But he was more good-humored at other points and grew most animated when condemning news coverage he considered unfair. Here are five takeaways from our interview.The president’s State of the Union address is slated for Tuesday night. A senior administration official said immigration would be the main theme.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. Ralph Northam, the Democratic governor of Virginia, is facing intense pressure from his own party to resign after a racist picture on his 1984 medical school yearbook page became public. The photo showed one person in blackface and one dressed as a Ku Klux Klan member.At first Mr. Northam, above, acknowledged that he was in the photo, but on Saturday he denied that he was either person pictured. He said he would not quit and asked Virginians to let him earn their forgiveness.“I cannot in good conscience choose the path that would be easier for me to duck the responsibility to reconcile,” Mr. Northam said.____3. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, above, entered the 2020 race for president, joining a Democratic primary field that is the most diverse in history. It remains to be seen how Mr. Booker’s relentless optimism will fare with a Democratic electorate energized by seething anger toward the president.A potential candidate, Howard Schultz, was greeted by protesters when he returned to his hometown, Seattle, on Thursday. Mr. Schultz, the former chief executive of Starbucks, is considering running as an independent, a move many believe would hurt the Democrats’ chances.And there’s a thorny question several liberal candidates will have to navigate: Will people lose the choices offered by private health insurance under a single-payer system? The 2020 race will be the first time many leading Democratic candidates will have to explain and defend “Medicare for all.”____4. As cities and towns in the Midwest began assessing deaths, injuries and damage after this week’s deep freeze, fast-warming weather is throwing the region into a temperature roller coaster.It could be 52 degrees in the Chicago region on Monday, up 73 degrees from Thursday morning, when the city saw a low of minus 21. “It’s fairly rare to see this much of a turnaround in temperature in this short of time,” a meteorologist with the National Weather Service said. Above, Lake Michigan’s shoreline in Chicago on Wednesday.We captured images of what life looked like in the frozen Midwest. Government officials said at least 21 deaths across the region were related to the bitter weather system.____5. The Trump administration is suspending the 1987 Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty, one of the last major nuclear arms control treaties with Russia.“We can no longer be restricted by the treaty while Russia shamelessly violates it,” Secretary of State Mike Pompeo, above, said Friday.President Vladimir Putin of Russia responded by also suspending his country’s observance of the treaty, and said Russia would build weapons previously banned under the pact and would no longer initiate talks with the United States on any matters related to nuclear arms control.Separately, President Trump seemed optimistic about reaching a landmark trade deal with China, but suggested he might leave some tariffs in place anyway.____6. The Senate delivered a bipartisan rebuke to President’s Trump foreign policy, voting overwhelmingly to advance legislation that expresses strong opposition to the withdrawal of United States military forces from Syria and Afghanistan. Above, U.S. Marines in Afghanistan last year.The amendment — written by the Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, and backed by virtually every Senate Republican — will be added to a broader bipartisan Middle East policy bill expected to easily pass the Senate next week.The president of Afghanistan, Ashraf Ghani, is also concerned about a hasty American exit, and sent a letter to Mr. Trump on Tuesday offering him reduced costs for keeping U.S. troops in the country.____7. Two tech giants had two different weeks.Apple announced Tuesday that profits were flat and revenues were down in its most recent quarter, which the company attributed to the economic slowdown in China and diminishing demand for new iPhones.Facebook, despite a string of scandals in 2018, said Wednesday that it had gained new users around the world in the fourth quarter and reported a record profit.And Apple cut off Facebook’s access to apps and updates that it was working on internally, saying the social network violated Apple’s rules. Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, may be the only one who can fix Facebook’s privacy problem, our Business Day columnist writes.____8. Employers shrugged off both the monthlong partial government shutdown and fears of an economic slowdown to add 304,000 jobs in January. This marks the 100th consecutive month of job gains, more than double the previous record.But the economy did not escape the shutdown unscathed: The Congressional Budget Office estimated this week that the funding lapse shaved $11 billion off total output, $3 billion of which will never be recovered. Above, federal employees at a food kitchen in Washington, D.C., in mid-January.It was a tough week for digital media, with more than 1,000 employees laid off at BuzzFeed, AOL, Yahoo and HuffPost, and Vice Media starting the process of laying off some 250 workers. What went wrong? It’s complicated.____9. It’s Super Bowl Sunday. Follow our live coverage of Super Bowl LIII here.The road to the big game had plenty of twists and turns: mistakes, penalties, upsets — and a whole lot of fun. Here’s an illustrated look at how we got here.Tom Brady is now New England’s favorite adopted son. This has more to do with timing, some key lifestyle decisions and a certain fight with the N.F.L. over deflated footballs than with his collection of Super Bowl rings, our sports reporter writes.Hundreds of former N.F.L. athletes have said they started regularly taking painkillers when they entered the league. Their habits can persist in retirement, sending them on journeys into addiction.____10. And finally, don’t miss our Best Weekend Reads.We talk to the wife of El Chapo, Emma Coronel Aispuro, who has no regrets, and look at the full story of Lorena Bobbitt. We also write about the lives of remarkable black men and women who never received an obituary in The New York Times, including, clockwise from top left: Nina Mae McKinney, Alfred Hair, Oscar Micheaux, Gladys Bentley, Mary Ellen Pleasant, Major Taylor and Philip A. Payton Jr.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these 10 new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have a great week.Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump escalated the border wall fight in a televised speech last night, at the cost of leaving the government partly closed. He criticized political opponents for blocking the wall, although Democrats have offered $1.3 billion for border security measures like surveillance and fencing.The effects of the shutdown have begun to ripple across the economy, with mortgage applications delayed or canceled, public companies unable to complete deals and the well running dry for many federal employees.• Payday would have come this week for many of the 800,000 federal workers affected. With no paychecks on the way, their savings are evaporating and their credit cards are being maxed out.• The impasse is being felt elsewhere in the economy, including in home sales. Buyers are pulling out because of “economic uncertainty,” according to a National Association of Realtors survey. And closings are being delayed or canceled because customers’ mortgages were backed by federal agencies.• Several regulators are down to a skeleton staff, and companies are telling investors that their pending takeovers and stock sales could be delayed.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Trade talks in Beijing wrapped up today, as Chinese and American negotiators hurry to strike a deal before March, when the Trump administration has threatened to raise tariffs again.In recent weeks, the Chinese have made some concessions, resuming purchases of American soybeans, dropping retaliatory measures on U.S.-made cars. China has also offered to welcome more foreign investors and help limit forced transfer of overseas companies’ technology to Chinese businesses.Yesterday, President Trump wrote on Twitter that the discussions were “going very well!”But in Washington, many are sounding a note of caution: Are China’s promises too vague? Are they enforceable? One scholar described Beijing’s compromises as “a modest adjustment” when the U.S. and other countries want a “great leap in liberalization.”The Kim surprise:  Kim Jong-un, the leader of North Korea, stepped off a train in Beijing yesterday to meet with President Xi Jinping, at the Chinese government’s invitation. China said the timing of his arrival was coincidental, but his presence was a reminder that the U.S. needs China’s cooperation to exert pressure on North Korea.Scheduling issues: The Trump administration has said that if negotiations fail, it will raise tariffs on Chinese goods on March 2. But there are several other key dates in play.• Mr. Trump will attend the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, which starts Jan. 22. But the U.S. is reluctant to set up formal trade negotiations there, possibly because the president plans to use his State of the Union address, on Jan. 29, to demand broader powers to raise tariffs.• But China wants progress before the Lunar New Year on Feb. 4, which is generally preceded by a surge in consumer spending.China has reason to rush: The trade tensions are hurting its economy.• The World Bank said yesterday that Chinese growth would slow to 6.2 percent this year from 6.5 percent last year. Global growth is predicted to fall to 2.9 percent from 3 percent in 2018.• Corporate insolvencies are expected to increase faster in China than in any other major economy this year, growing by a fifth in 2019.• Chinese bond yields are at a two-year low. Its central bank loosened credit conditions five times in the past year.• Signs of progress in the talks drove markets higher in the U.S. yesterday and in Europe and Asia today.The struggling retailer reached a deal yesterday to stay alive after a flurry of last-minute negotiations, the NYT’s Michael Corkery writes. Sears’s chairman, Edward Lampert, a hedge fund manager who took control in 2005, now has the opportunity to sweeten his $4.4 billion bid for the company. He is expected to enter an official bid at a court-supervised auction next week.Sears’ largest creditors are in the driving seat, and they have two options. They can let Mr. Lampert try to maintain it as a “going concern” or force it to liquidate by selling all its real estate, inventory, intellectual property and other assets.Other retail news: In the first retail holiday update, J.C. Penney reported yesterday that adjusted comparable sales fell 3.5 percent during the crucial shopping period. The department store chain, based in Plano, Tex., also said it would close three stores and may announce more as its new chief executive, Jill Soltau, attempts a turnaround.The media tycoon Sumner Redstone, 95, settled a long-running legal conflict with Manuela Herzer, writes Edmund Lee of the NYT. It was ostensibly focused on her right to his holdings, but it drew interest because of the salacious details it disclosed and the questions it raised about his mental state.Mr. Redstone and his daughter, Shari Redstone, run the private theater chain National Amusements, through which they control the CBS television network and a portfolio of companies at Viacom that include MTV and Paramount Pictures.Ms. Herzer, who is at least four decades younger than Mr. Redstone, had been named as a beneficiary of his will until he stripped her from the document in 2015 and forced her out of his mansion in Beverly Hills.Fallout from the ensuing court battle led Mr. Redstone to scale back his involvement in CBS and Viacom, and prompted a succession struggle that put his daughter at the top of the media empire.Court filings show that Ms. Herzer must now pay back $3.25 million in gifts and money received while she was Mr. Redstone’s companion.Investment bankers at the embattled financial institution are steeling themselves for a double-digit cut to their bonus pool, according to the FT.Deutsche has been battered by bad news in the past year: Its stock price hit record lows, competitors are gobbling up its market share, and top-level employees are jumping ship as it fires thousands of others. In the third quarter, the bank said that revenue at its trading desk sank 15 percent.Last year, the company paid out 2.2 billion euros in incentives to employees; the final amount for this year will be announced on March 22.MetLife said Michel Khalaf, president of the insurer’s U.S. and Europe, Middle East and Africa businesses, would become its chief executive when Steven Kandarian retires on April 30. (WSJ)Herbalife Nutrition said Michael Johnson would return as its chief executive, after Richard Goudis, his successor, resigned over comments made before his promotion. (WSJ)Monzo, a banking start-up, is hiring Gary Hoffman, a former Barclays vice chairman who steered Northern Rock through its emergency bailout early in the financial crisis, as chairman. He will replace Denise Kingsmill. (FT)Deals• Executives from Siemens and Alstom met yesterday with Margrethe Vestager, the European Union competition commissioner, in an effort to rescue their troubled rail deal. (Bloomberg)• A six-month lockup period on stock in the smartphone maker Xiaomi expires today, letting employees and cornerstone investors sell shares. (Bloomberg)• Mexico’s new government is looking to woo investors and bolster initial public offerings by reducing its tax rate on them. (FT)• GlaxoSmithKline will look to buy early-stage assets and make partnerships, said the drugmaker’s chief executive, Emma Walmsley. (Reuters)Tech• Larry Ellison, the executive chairman of Oracle and a longtime friend of Elon Musk, disclosed a $1 billion stake in Tesla in regulatory filings. (MarketWatch)• Facebook, Twitter and YouTube are seeking input from hundreds of groups, including right-leaning ones, to help referee political speech. (WSJ)• Want to delete the Facebook app? On some Samsung smartphones, you can’t. (Bloomberg)• Skyworks, which supplies semiconductors to Apple, lowered its earnings guidance, citing weakness across its largest smartphone customers. (CNBC)• Apple’s Tim Cook earned $15.6 million last year, according to a regulatory finding — an increase of nearly 22 percent over 2017. (CNET)• Mr. Cook criticized Qualcomm as charging “exorbitant prices” to use its patents and employing “illegal” licensing policies, dashing hopes of a settlement in the companies’ legal fight. (CNBC)• Officials in Vietnam say Facebook failed to remove “slanderous content,” violating local law. (FT)Politics and policy• Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chief, shared polling data with an associate tied to Russian intelligence during the 2016 race, prosecutors said. (NYT)• There’s a sealed grand jury subpoena demanding information from an unnamed foreign corporation, which may or may not be from Robert Mueller’s special counsel investigation. The Supreme Court is letting it proceed. (NYT)• The Russian lawyer who met with Trump campaign officials in 2016, Natalia Veselnitskaya, was charged by federal prosecutors in Manhattan with trying to thwart a separate money-laundering investigation. (NYT)• Democrats are demanding a delay in the Trump administration’s plan to lift sanctions on the aluminum businesses run by Oleg Deripaska, a Russian billionaire linked to the Kremlin. (FT)Best of the rest• Barbie is heading to the big screen, in a live-action film starring and co-produced by Margot Robbie. The news of the film lifted stock in the toy’s manufacturer, Mattel. (FT)• Has the market hit bottom? There are arguments either way. (Bloomberg)• Steve Eisman, the fund manager known for his role in the book “The Big Short,” is nervous about another threat to the financial system: BBB-rated corporate bonds. (FT)• Small-cap stocks seem poised for another year of double-digit profit gains, even as earnings at larger firms falter. (WSJ)• Chinese buyers have been the top foreign investors in both units and dollar volume of residential real estate for six years straight, with a focus on million-dollar properties. Now, more middle-class investors are hunting for affordable homes. (CNBC)• It may be the wrong time for anything radical at Barclays, but the activist Edward Bramson might still be good on its board. (WSJ)• By 2030, emerging markets are likely to have blossomed into seven of the top 10 economies in the world, with China at the top of the list and India surpassing the U.S. (Bloomberg)• American stock values: headed for a “conscious recoupling” with global equities? (WSJ)• Dubai’s ruler has plans to triple the size of his city-state’s financial center. (FT)• Hedge funds posted a 4.07 percent annual loss last year, beating the market’s performance for the first time in a decade; the S&P 500 fell 4.38 percent. (CNBC)• Palladium is on a tear, with the metal’s per-ounce price rising more than 140 percent since the beginning of 2016 and reaching $1,329 yesterday. It’s primarily used in catalytic converters, and became more expensive than gold in December. (FT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you Thursday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Peter Eavis and Binyamin AppelbaumMaybe the markets were not overreacting.With the United States economy posting solid numbers last year, the alarming signals coming out of stock and bond markets seemed out of whack with the real world. President Trump’s bellicose trade actions were a concern, but hiring was strong and corporate earnings were surging.But this week, companies have issued warnings about the health of their businesses that suggest investors were right to be worried about growth. On Wednesday, Apple reduced its revenue expectations for the first time in 16 years, citing weak iPhone sales in China. On Thursday, Delta Air Lines said its fare revenue, while growing, would fall short of the company’s earlier forecast. And the American manufacturing sector slowed sharply last month, according to a closely watched index released Thursday.In the coming weeks, scores of companies will report their fourth-quarter results. A senior White House economics official acknowledged that there could be a torrent of bad news from corporate America.“It’s not going to be just Apple,” Kevin Hassett, the chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers, told CNN on Thursday. “There are a heck of a lot of U.S. companies that have a lot of sales in China that are basically going to be watching their earnings be downgraded next year until we get a deal with China.”He seemed to suggest that was not necessarily bad, because it could help the Trump administration achieve its goal of getting China to make trade concessions to the United States.Those comments did little to assuage the fears of investors. The S&P 500 stock index closed down about 2.5 percent, leaving it more than 16 percent below the high it hit in September. But perhaps the most notable move was in the market for government bonds, where investors park their money in times of stress or when they expect the economy to slow. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note, which moves in the opposite direction of its price, fell to 2.56 percent, well below the level it reached in early November, when investors were more optimistic about the economy.“On days like today people say, ‘Crud, I’ve got to buy tons of bonds,’” said Jim Vogel, a fixed income strategist at FTN Financial. “That’s driven by a large change in sentiment.”Important indicators still show the American economy is growing at a decent clip. A measure of employment in the private sector in December, released Thursday, was higher than expected. And ahead of the Labor Department’s monthly jobs report on Friday, analysts estimated that employers added about 180,000 jobs in December.Despite this, companies and consumers are facing challenges that could make them more cautious about spending money. If they pull back, the economy will suffer. Apple’s warning provides strong evidence that the trade tensions with China are taking a toll. And if more indicators show the American economy stumbling, investors will become more convinced that the Federal Reserve’s recent interest rate increases are dampening activity.Corporate profits — and stock prices — are highly sensitive to global economic weakness. Foreign sales accounted for 45 percent of the revenues of companies in the S&P 500 stock index over the last five years.There are signs of Mr. Trump’s policies beginning to weigh on domestic demand, too. The Institute for Supply Management said Thursday that its index of manufacturing activity fell sharply in December, the largest one-month drop since the last recession.The manufacturing index fell to what is still considered a healthy level, consistent with other data generally showing that the economy remains in good shape. But the downward trend contributed to a growing sense of unease on Wall Street about how soon the current expansion might end.“When it has seeped into the survey it probably means it’s three to five weeks old,” Mr. Vogel said.Indeed, investors are so convinced trouble is coming that they are betting the Federal Reserve will abandon its plans to raise interest rates in 2019.Fed officials predicted in mid-December that the central bank would raise its benchmark rate twice this year, moving the rate into a “neutral” range that neither stimulates nor discourages economic activity. By the end of trading Thursday, the odds of an interest-rate cut in 2019 had climbed above 50 percent.Robert Kaplan, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, reinforced those expectations, telling Bloomberg Television that the Fed should wait at least a few months before considering any additional increases.“We shouldn’t be taking any further action until some of these uncertainties resolve themselves, and I think that could take several months,” he said on Thursday.Mr. Kaplan, however, is not a voting member of the Fed’s policymaking committee this year. The committee comprises the Fed’s board of governors and a rotating selection of five of the 12 presidents of regional reserve banks.An indication of the Fed’s views could come Friday morning, when the Fed’s chairman, Jerome H. Powell, is scheduled to answer questions at a public appearance with his two immediate predecessors, Janet Yellen and Ben S. Bernanke.“There’s a belief he’s willing to back off, but we haven’t seen that yet,” Mark Haefele, global chief investment officer at UBS Wealth Management, said, referring to Mr. Powell. “If the Fed hikes rates in March, it’ll be a mess.”And on Thursday an ominous event occurred in the government bond market. The yield on the 5-year Treasury note fell below that of the 3-month Treasury bill. Yields are generally higher on longer-term debt. An inversion of that pattern signals a loss of confidence in longer-term economic prospects and has often served as an early warning of a recession.Investors and corporate executives have experience with slowdowns in large overseas economies, but they have not had to simultaneously grapple with the effects of a trade war. In explaining Apple’s lowered sales forecast, the company’s chief executive, Tim Cook, said, “The economic environment in China has been further impacted by rising trade tensions with the United States.” Apple’s stock plunged nearly 10 percent on Thursday, taking its market value down to around $675 billion, well below the $1.1 trillion it reached as recently as October.Mr. Trump’s tariffs have raised prices on a wide range of Chinese components used by American manufacturers. Roughly half of the companies in the I.S.M. survey said tariffs were weighing on profits, or raising costs.Linton Crystal Technologies, a firm based in Rochester, makes specialized furnaces used to grow silicon tubes, which are cut into wafers for semiconductors and solar panels that are sold to customers all over the world. The work was once performed entirely in the United States. But even though they are still designed, assembled and customized in the United States, the machines’ components now are built in China.Mr. Trump has said the goal of his trade policies was to convince companies like Linton to bring back jobs from China. Mr. Hassett emphasized on Thursday that the Trump administration expected the domestic economy to remain strong, and that companies focused on the United States would benefit.But Todd Barnum, Linton Crystal’s chief operating officer, said the cost of making furnaces entirely in the United States was prohibitive. And as a result of the tariffs, the company is also moving design work to China — a move Mr. Barnum said would save hundreds of thousands of dollars in tariffs by reducing the need for prototypes to be shipped to the United States.“Our customers don’t care if it was manufactured in the United States,” Mr. Barnum said. “They care about the highest quality at the lowest dollar.”Carlos Tejada, Amie Tsang and Jack Nicas contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good morning.India’s economic problems threaten to undermine the prime minister, businesses in Britain prepare for a chaotic Brexit and Apple takes a strong stand on data privacy. Here’s the latest:India’s jobless rate hit 6.1 percent in the last year, its highest level in 45 years, according to a report published on Thursday in the independent Indian newspaper Business Standard.Alarm spread over the figure, as did accusations that the government had been trying to cover up the bad news. Two government advisers resigned in protest of its failure to release the economic data.The developments could deepen Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s vulnerability in national elections that are expected to take place in early May.Background: Mr. Modi swept into office in 2014 with a campaign focused on jobs and reviving the economy. But since then, droughts, a sluggish manufacturing sector and Mr. Modi’s widely criticized decision to replace most of India’s currency have fueled unemployment and contributed to an economic slowdown.Already, the impact of the economy is beginning to hurt Mr. Modi. In recent local elections, described as the “semifinals” of Indian politics, his party suffered its worst defeat in recent years across five states.Companies across Britain, faced with increasing uncertainty around the country’s departure from the E.U., have been stockpiling products, making backup plans and exploring new shipping routes. International banks are shifting thousands of jobs from Britain to the Continent.“It’s meant extra resources, extra overtime, to get it done,” said one executive. “It’s incredibly annoying. It’s frustrating.”By the numbers: The economy is 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if Britain had voted to remain in the E.U. in 2016, according to one research institution. And investment in the auto sector was found to have plunged by almost 50 percent in 2018.What’s next? Uncertainty is intensifying. Parliament remains at an impasse, with under 60 days to the March 29 deadline to leave the E.U.Solidarity elsewhere: The messy and self-destructive Brexit process in Britain has made E.U. membership more popular in other member countries, even among populists, writes our chief diplomatic correspondent in Brussels.The kingdom announced that its crackdown on high-level corruption, led by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, was over and claimed it had helped retrieve $106 billion for the state treasury.A government statement said that the “anticorruption committee” had summoned 381 people. Of those detained, 87 were released after signing confessions and agreeing to settlements, while 64 had been referred to the public prosecutor.Background: About 15 months ago, the Saudi government detained hundreds of businessmen, former officials and even members of the royal family at a Ritz-Carlton hotel, where many were subject to coercion and physical abuse, according to witnesses.Analysis: The end of the crackdown may be part of an effort by Saudi Arabia to repair its image, which took a hit after the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi last year by Saudi operatives.In other Saudi news: A Filipina maid was executed this week after being found guilty of murder, Philippine officials said, but details about her case were not made public.As negotiators were concluding the second of two days of trade negotiations between the world’s two largest economies, President Trump said there was a “good chance” of striking an agreement.Liu He, China’s vice premier, was expected to formally propose that Mr. Trump meet with President Xi Jinping next month.In other Washington news: The Senate voted to pass nonbinding bipartisan legislation that expressed opposition to Mr. Trump’s withdrawal of American troops from Afghanistan and Syria, the second time in two months that the Senate has rebuked the president’s foreign policy.“Waste of time”: Mr. Trump, in an interview with our reporters, said that he had all but given up on negotiations with Congress over his border wall. He also dismissed any wrongdoing in investigations that have ensnared his associates. Apple: Chief executive Tim Cook cut off Facebook’s access to apps and updates that it was working on internally, because the social media company had violated Apple’s rules with a research app that snooped on users’ online activity.Birth tourism: Three people who ran businesses that helped women give birth in the U.S. to secure American citizenship for their babies were arrested as part of a broad federal probe cracking down on an industry that has become increasingly popular, particularly among Chinese nationals.Polar vortex: At least eight deaths have been associated with the record-breaking cold snap sweeping through much of the U.S. Midwest, and hospitals have been treating dozens of frostbite and hypothermia cases. Thousands of flights were canceled, and schools and universities were closed.Soccer and human rights: An increasing number of powerful sports executives have called for the release of a Bahrain-born soccer player, Hakeem al-Araibi, who has refugee status in Australia but has been detained in Thailand since late November. The case represents the first time that sporting bodies have come together to “address the fate of a single person,” one of Mr. Araibi’s supporters said.New Zealand: Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern scrapped her initial targets in an ambitious plan to build 100,000 new homes over the next decade, signaling that a solution to the country’s shortage of affordable housing remains out of reach.Iran: Britain, France and Germany, in an attempt to bolster Iran’s economy while skirting U.S. sanctions, have set up a company that would essentially allow goods to be bartered between companies. Whether anyone will actually use it remains to be seen.11 days offline: Tonga, a remote island northeast of New Zealand, was forced into digital darkness after an underwater fiber-optic cable was severed on Jan. 20, cutting off internet connections, international calls and even credit card payments. Repairs are underway, and some connectivity has trickled back.Sri Lanka: Our Frugal Traveler hopped on a train from Colombo to Kandy, then from Kandy to Ella, to take in the lush, hilly terrain with rows of perfectly manicured tea plants. The country “is a place best seen slowly,” he writes.Overlooked no more: Forough Farrokhzad, who was perhaps the first female Iranian poet to write about the emotions and desires of women, elevating her among the great voices of Persian literature. Her death, from a car crash in 1967, was regarded as a national tragedy in Iran, but she didn’t receive a Times obituary. Until now.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: End the week with a glass of red wine and an Italian-American classic: pasta alla vodka.Does your office leave you with pain in your wrists, back or neck? Here’s how to make your workstation ergonomically correct.Unfamiliar with podcasts? Our connoisseur has recommendations to help you start.On this day in 1786, a Briton living in India delivered a discourse on a little-known proposition: Sanskrit, Persian, Latin, Greek and other languages might have a common source.The commentary set off the field of comparative linguistics. We know its fruits today as the concept of Proto-Indo-European, a mother language for dozens of tongues. The idea revolutionized not only the study of language but the sense of human history.The man who delivered the talk, Sir William Jones, was, predictably, a student of languages and culture. Less predictably, he was in India because he was also a legal expert — the same reason he ultimately became convinced of his theory.He arrived many decades before the Raj, or British government rule. The British East India Company was increasing its control over territories it had long traded in. Some of the company’s officials wanted British justices like Jones to supervise the administration of Indian courts; translations from Sanskrit to English were crucial to that effort.Jones’s work with translators enabled his remarkable insights.Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this briefing misidentified the figure pictured in the Back Story. He is William Jones, not William James.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" Advertisement

      By JASMINE C. LEE

MARCH 26, 2019

The House failed on Tuesday to override President Trump’s veto of its resolution to block his national emergency declaration. The veto was the first of Mr. Trump’s presidency.Two-thirds of the House had to vote yes to override Mr. Trump’s veto. About 57 percent of representatives voted to block the emergency in February, and only three more representatives voted yes on Tuesday. Fourteen Republicans voted to override the veto.Republicans Who Voted YesNote: There are currently three vacancies in the House.Source: U.S. House of RepresentativesAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bythe editThere’s a simple reason so many colleges have chain restaurants: Students want them. By Tim HattonWelcome to The Edit. Each week in our newsletter, you’ll hear from college students and recent graduates about issues going on in their lives. Sign up here to get it in your inbox.It was easy to laugh when President Trump served the Clemson University football team a fast-food buffet at the White House. The sight of McDonald’s fries, cheeseburgers and sauce packets piled high beneath Abraham Lincoln’s portrait led to days of jokes on late night shows, Twitter and beyond.“I would think that’s their favorite food,” Mr. Trump said.The spread was a strange choice for the setting, but the president wasn’t completely wrong about how college students eat. A 2015 study found that more than 70 percent of college students surveyed ate fast food at least once a day. Another survey found that 45 percent of adults ages 20 to 39 eat fast food or pizza on any given day.A number of factors could explain this high rate of fast food consumption by college kids. For some of us, it’s the first time we are free to decide what we’re going to eat. We also tend to stay up late, and fast food is available in large quantities at all hours of the day and night.But there’s another, more obvious explanation: College students eat fast food because it’s right in front of them, served on campus by their schools.I go to the University of Oklahoma, so let’s use that as an example. The school operates 30 places to eat on campus, including nine chain restaurants like Starbucks and Quiznos. To me, the chains seem to drum up more excitement than their independent counterparts.The vendor I visit most often is the Chick-fil-A in the student union, where I pick up breakfast two or three times a week. My routine continued when I commuted to an internship this summer and ate breakfast at a stand-alone Chick-fil-A instead.It’s clear to see how Chick-fil-A benefits from the habit I picked up at school. “Restaurants targeting college campuses makes a lot of sense because, basically, you have this bubble that most students live in, right?” said Sam Oches, who has written about campus dining for QSR, a food service trade magazine. “It’s a very captivated audience. They’re going to build a loyalty to your brand in college that they can carry on to the rest of their lives.”Mr. Oches added that schools often benefit financially from keeping students on campus, instead of letting them buy food elsewhere. He said schools “don’t really want the students to go to town. Spending their money on campus is a lot better for the university.”Following that logic, I assumed chains might also save universities money. Brands gain loyal customers by having locations on college campuses, so I thought they could be paying schools for this access.I thought wrong. After franchise fees and other costs, branded restaurants are 7 to 10 percent more expensive for my university to operate than generic ones, according to Dave Annis, the associate vice president and director of housing and food services at Oklahoma.He also said it’s worth it.“Ten, 15 years ago, food service wasn’t even in the top 10 reasons you would pick a university,” Mr. Annis said. “Current studies show food services are in the top three reasons a student picks a university. Having a competitive food service helps us recruit.”Grand Canyon University, a private Christian school in Phoenix, helps demonstrate the correlation between amenities like broad dining options and recruiting. Over the past several years, the school has increased its offering of brand-name restaurants on campus relative to non-franchise options. The school has also seen huge gains in enrollment in that span, from under 1,000 students on campus in 2009 to just over 20,000 in 2018.“There’s always that balance in school, trying to figure out where you’re going to eat,” said Gwen Massett, who graduated from Grand Canyon University in December with a degree in digital film. “It really comes down to making the time to cook or buy food. Realistically, though, a lot of students end up eating at Chick-fil-A, Subway or Taco Bell.”There are no franchises on campus at John Brown University in Siloam Springs, Ark. The school is much smaller than Oklahoma and Grand Canyon, with just under 2,000 students on campus. “The licensing costs and royalty fees, infrastructure costs and supply chain logistics can make it cost-prohibitive with limited enrollment,” Christine Blaha, the school’s food service director, wrote in an email.Students at John Brown want to see a franchise on campus anyway.“That’s an idea we’ve been lobbying for, and by ‘lobbying for,’ I mean complaining about,” said Owen Terexia, a freshman political science major at John Brown. “If there was something like a Chick-fil-A you could use your meal plan on, people wouldn’t hesitate to do that.”When Oklahoma students complained that they wanted healthier options and more variety in their dining options, Mr. Addis and his team gave the student body four new dining options to choose from. Ultimately, students voted for Raising Cane’s Chicken Fingers, choosing taste over nutrition.Mr. Addis said Cane’s has been popular with students, “which leads us always to question, when the students ask for something: Do we give them what they say they want, or what they really want?”This, it seems, is the central issue: Schools aren’t choosing to install franchise restaurants on their own, but because students have asked for them.Like pulling all-nighters in the library or complaining about too little parking, the worst of my fast food habit will probably be a college pastime I’ll leave behind after I graduate in May. Until then, I’ll be happy to keep having Chick-fil-A for breakfast.Elite Law Firm’s All-White Partner Class Stirs Debate on Diversity Paul, Weiss is more diverse at its top ranks than most of its peers. But its recent promotions underscored how far big firms have to go to elevate women and people of color.Freshman in College, Freshman in the Capitol: West Virginia’s 19-Year-Old Lawmaker Caleb Hanna, one of the youngest state legislators in the country, is a black man raised in a white family who represents a predominantly white district in West Virginia.A Tiny Screw Shows Why iPhones Won’t Be ‘Assembled in U.S.A.’ Apple decided several years ago to produce a high-end Mac in Texas. The problems that surfaced illustrate the challenges of domestic manufacturing.When College Rapists Graduate If they’re not held accountable at school, what’s to stop them from becoming the villain of another woman’s #MeToo story once they enter the work force?Duke University Apologizes Over Professor’s Email Asking Chinese Students to Speak English The university is conducting an internal review after a professor sent an email cautioning international students from speaking Chinese on campus.A Frat Boy and a Gentleman One researcher found that fraternities were embracing “a more inclusive form of masculinity,” based on equality for gay men, respect for women, racial parity and emotional intimacy.Hannah sent us a problem to figure out this week:I’m in my freshman year of college at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst. At the beginning of my first semester, I joined a varsity team in a sport I had performed well at in high school and declared my major in a STEM field that I was curious enough about. With the first semester of college down, I can safely say that I excelled in both. I feel really bored in each place as well as my university at large, where despite being part of the honors college and getting to know a lot of people around me, I still find that I’m at the top of my classes and have trouble finding people who are as passionate about academics as I am. As I look to the next semester, I find that I want to quit my sport, change my major, and transfer — all in search of topics, activities, people and places that inspire and excite me in ways that my current surroundings lack.By exceeding where I am, I’ll prepare myself with skills that will benefit me later on: be it my sport’s work ethic and physical fitness, the critical thinking involved in my major, or a G.P.A. that might be higher than it could be at another school. Is it better to try to find places where I might be happier (and more excited) or to stay where it’s clear that I’ll be able to be ok? And should I try to modify my current situation in order to try to challenge myself more so that I at least stay engaged in what I’m doing vs. zoning out because things are too easy?Theo Balcomb, the managing producer of The Daily, weighed in on this one:I was right there with you midway through my first year. I can hear in your letter the care and time that you’ve put into this decision. I mean, my goodness, visiting colleges, getting into one, choosing your home for the next four years in the midst of saying goodbye to your childhood one is hard enough.Now you’re thinking about reversing all those decisions, and you’re looking over an abyss of more unknown. Acknowledging all that, let me say: You are doing the work that so many people don’t do.You are questioning whether you’re in the right place. Lots of people do that. You are worrying that your choices won’t lead you to where you want to be and won’t make you happy in the meantime. Lots of people do that. But you are thinking about a new way forward. You are putting yourself out there and jumping into something new. Lots of people don’t do that. I think they’re usually unhappier for it.I can’t say exactly what will happen if you choose to apply to transfer. I can’t say that you’ll get into another school that you’ll like. I can’t say that you will, and then you’ll go, and once you’re there you won’t think about all the things you missed by making that choice. I can say that I felt many of the absences you’re feeling. Being in a place I thought I wanted that wasn’t quite right, being afraid to accept that I made the wrong choice, being angry that I was surrounded by people who didn’t want to read books as much as I did.I think you can’t ignore those feelings too long. I ended up making my choice to apply to transfer because I needed to just try to see if there was another option. I had been burned by the college search once before. I hadn’t gotten into my dream school the first go around. I had settled and I thought it might be fine to settle for so many similar reasons that you cite: the honors program, the friends you’ve already made, your grades.I think you should consider putting those things aside for right now. Try looking at other options. Feel out how it might feel to be you a year from now on one of those campuses. Apply. If you think you need to have a sure bet of getting out, apply to a reach and a not-so-reach. Going through that will solidify, I think, your feelings on where you are. You might hunker down on the things you do like about your current situation. Or you might start living a bunch of new fantasy lives in your head that you’d rather live out. That’s how you’ll know if you need to jump or not.I hope no matter what happens, you find a group of people as passionate about academics as you are. Knowing how much thought you’re putting into this decision, I know you can find that where you are or wherever you might go.P. S. Just saying, transferring to Barnard College, which is famous for accepting a high number of transfer students, turned out to be the best decision I ever made.Navigating college and the years afterward can be tough, but we’re here to help! Maybe you’re wondering how to choose a major, or the best time to study abroad. Perhaps you’re out of school and figuring out how to budget. Send us an email at theedit@nytimes.com with the subject line, “Figure It Out.” Tim Hatton is a contributor to The Edit and a senior at the University of Oklahoma.  Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy John KoblinApple is coming to Hollywood.Delete that.Hollywood is going to Apple.On March 25, a delegation of producers, studio executives and big-name actors will enter the subterranean 1,000-seat Steve Jobs Theater in Cupertino, Calif., for one of those Apple showcases, with the chief executive, Tim Cook, commanding the stage before a crowd of loyalists.This time around, the focus won’t be on the next must-have device. With iPhone sales showing signs of fatigue, the event is intended to draw attention to the company’s billion-dollar-plus bet on entertainment, an initiative that will put Apple in direct competition with Netflix, Amazon and HBO.The premiere date for the service is getting closer, with the first of a dozen or more shows likely to start streaming before the year is out. At next week’s presentation, Apple is expected to reveal details of what it has been working on with stars from both sides of the camera like Reese Witherspoon, Jennifer Aniston, Brie Larson, Jason Momoa, Octavia Spencer, J.J. Abrams, M. Night Shyamalan and Steven Spielberg.The tag line, “It’s show time,” appeared prominently on the invitations. For many of the show business people, this will be their first trip to Cupertino, the corporate home of their new patrons.Apple didn’t need stars before, but it needs them now. Although the company was the first publicly traded American firm to be valued above $1 trillion, its most recent earnings report showed flat profits and falling revenue.So the plan now is not only to sell devices, but to fill them with content. That has led the company into the alien territory of Hollywood, where local customs can clash with Silicon Valley folkways.Apple is a relatively late arrival to streaming. Netflix, Amazon and Hulu have offered original programming for several years and are now formidable presences at the Emmys. In 2018, there were nearly 500 scripted television shows available in the United States, with Netflix spending at least $8 billion on new content. Amazon, the Walt Disney Company and Warner Media have increased their programming budgets to keep pace.Apple has decided to put more emphasis on its services — think Apple Music and Apple Pay — to increase revenues. The strategy will include an expansion of Apple News, which is expected to be highlighted at the showcase, and the star-studded streaming service. Apple has negotiated with the likes of HBO, Starz and Showtime to populate its screens, Bloomberg has reported, but the centerpiece will be original programming.The event at the Apple Park campus in Cupertino is also meant to drive home — for iPhone fans and anyone in Hollywood who hasn’t been paying attention — just how many shows Apple has pulled together. Five series have completed filming. Around a half dozen more are on the verge of wrapping production, according to several people familiar with the shows who were not authorized to speak publicly. And the number of original productions is expected to increase in 2020.With all that new material, Apple will transform itself, seemingly overnight, from a tech giant into a more general enterprise, with a slate of original entertainment offerings sizable enough to put it in a league with Showtime, Hulu or FX.Interviews with more than a dozen people who have had dealings with Apple, all of whom said they couldn’t speak publicly about private discussions, suggest that, while the producers and stars appreciate having another deep-pocketed company to pitch, they also have … well, let’s call them concerns.Those concerns have arisen from the culture clash that may inevitably come about when a tech company that is used to guarding its trade secrets gets involved in show business, which runs on a stream of conversation, much of it of the just-between-us variety.Players expect to be kept in the loop. But many of the people working with Apple said they have received little or no information on how, exactly, their shows will be released. Or even when they will be released, other than a vague assurance of “later this year, probably fall.” They also don’t have a clear idea of Apple’s marketing plans for the shows. Or what their colleagues in the newly built Apple stable are up to.Apple’s entertainment team is based in Culver City, Calif., historically a center of moviemaking. It is led by two former Sony television executives, Jamie Erlicht and Zack Van Amburg, under the watch of the senior vice president of internet software and services Eddy Cue. Mr. Cue hired the Sony veterans in 2017, after Apple rolled out its first original series, a reality show called “Planet of the Apps,” which was a dud. About $1 billion was set aside for them to spend on programming, and they have blown well past that amount by now.While Apple may be a late arrival to the streaming party, its showcase will take place two and a half weeks before Disney is expected to preview elements of its new streaming platform, and many months before Warner Media provides details of its version.Apple’s entertainment team has not been totally opaque. It has provided feedback to individuals involved in the shows, but it has been tight-lipped about the marketing and rollout plans. The March 25 event may allay Hollywood’s concerns, but several people involved in the new programs have interpreted the lack of communication as a sign that there may not be a clear game plan.People involved in the coming series also said that Apple executives had expressed squeamishness when it comes to the portrayal of technology in the shows — how exactly are you using that iPhone? Or that Mac laptop?Apple was sensitive to a reputation it earned, early on, as a home for uplifting programming, with little or no room for the gritty antihero fare that has defined many critically acclaimed series over the last two decades, from “The Sopranos” onward. Executives at the company bristled when they discovered there would be scenes involving crucifixes in Mr. Shyamalan’s new thriller for the service, as The Wall Street Journal reported in September. But Apple ultimately allowed the crucifixes to remain, according to two people familiar with the series.Apple had no comment on any aspect of its streaming plans.Hollywood’s concerns have not prevented big names from making deals with the company. In all, Apple has ordered roughly two dozen series from the likes of Oprah Winfrey, Damien Chazelle, Chris Evans and others.The producer J.J. Abrams has two Apple series in the works, one with Jennifer Garner, who played the lead in the Abrams-produced ABC series “Alias,” and a musical show starring the singer-songwriter Sara Bareilles that is about to go into production.Apple has also given the green light to animated “Peanuts” specials and children’s shows made with Sesame Workshop, and it plans to round out its offerings with films it has acquired recently at Sundance and the Toronto International Film Festival.Here are the projects that have either completed filming or are nearing their wrap dates. They are the likeliest to appear in Apple’s first wave of shows.Untitled Series With Reese Witherspoon and Jennifer AnistonApple’s splashiest project is a behind-the-scenes series about a morning TV show. The company committed itself to two full seasons before seeing a script. Along with Ms. Witherspoon and Ms. Aniston, who are also producers, the cast includes Steve Carell, Billy Crudup and Mark Duplass. The series had some backstage drama last year, when its showrunner, Jay Carson, Hillary Clinton’s former press secretary and a supervising producer of “House of Cards,” was replaced by Kerry Ehrin, the co-creator of A&E’s “Bates Motel.” Brian Stelter, the CNN host and author of the 2013 book, “Top of the Morning: Inside the Cutthroat World of Morning TV,” serves as a consultant. Shooting for season one is nearly done.“Amazing Stories,” a Steven Spielberg RebootRevival of the NBC series of the same name. After its own showrunner problems — the original producer’s vision was too dark for almost everyone involved, including Mr. Spielberg — Edward Kitsis and Adam Horowitz, the duo behind the ABC series “Once Upon a Time,” took over. Expected to wrap soon.“Are You Sleeping?” a Mystery Starring Octavia SpencerA drama featuring the prolific Academy Award winner in the lead role, “Are You Sleeping?” is based on a crime novel by Kathleen Barber that featured a cold case and a sleuth with a podcast. According to Ms. Spencer’s Instagram account, shooting finished late last year.“For All Mankind,” a Ronald D. Moore Sci-Fi SeriesThis space drama from the producer of the cult-favorites “Outlander” and “Battlestar Galactica” is a alternate-history look at what would have happened if the global space race had continued. This one is in the can.“See,” With the “Aquaman” Star Jason MomoaA fantasy epic starring the “Aquaman” star (please note, the series is not called “Sea”) that poses the question, What would happen to humanity if everyone lost their sight? Also with Alfre Woodard, who has been in everything from “Scrooged” to “Luke Cage.” Now shooting.A New Shyamalan ThrillerA thriller from the maker of “The Sixth Sense” and “Glass” starring Rupert Grint, Lauren Ambrose and Nell Tiger Free. The story is a secret. Filming has come to an end.“Little America,” From the Writers of “The Big Sick”An anthology series focused on stories of immigrants coming to the United States. Produced by Lee Eisenberg (“The Office”) and the husband-and-wife screenwriting duo behind “The Big Sick,” Kumail Nanjiani and Emily V. Gordon. Now shooting.A Comedy From the “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia” Duo Rob McElhenney and Charlie Day, the stars and producers of the long-running FX and FXX sitcom. It’s done.“Central Park,” a Cartoon MusicalAn animated series — with songs! — from the “Bob’s Burgers” creator, Loren Bouchard, the “Frozen” voice actor Josh Gad and the producer Nora Smith. Should be finished in the next few months.“Home,” From the Documentary Filmmaker Matt TyrnauerAn unscripted series from the maker of “Scotty and the Secret History of Hollywood” and “Studio 54” that will take viewers inside lavish homes owned by non-celebrities. Expected to be finished in a few months.“Dickinson,” an Emily Dickinson ComedyA new spin on the reclusive poet of Amherst, Mass., from the playwright Alena Smith, who has written for Showtime’s “The Affair” and displayed her comedy chops with the cult Twitter account @TweenHobo and the 2014 novel “Tween Hobo: Off the Rails.” It stars Hailee Steinfeld, of “True Grit” and “Bumblebee,” as the title character, and the “30 Rock” alumna Jane Krakowski as her mother. Shooting is done.An earlier version of this article misstated the title of an ABC series made by Edward Kitsis and Adam Horowitz. It is “Once Upon a Time,” not “Once Upon a Fairy Tale.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start with the latest news about the partial government shutdown, a crucial vote in Britain’s Parliament and today’s confirmation hearing for the attorney general nominee.The president said on Monday that he had turned down a proposal by Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina to reopen the government for about three weeks to jump-start talks with Democrats.Mr. Trump also said he didn’t want the impasse over $5.7 billion that he has demanded for a wall on the southwestern border to continue, but it wasn’t clear what he saw as an alternative.Reaction: Polls show that a majority of Americans blame Mr. Trump and his party for the partial government shutdown, now in its fourth week. But among Republican voters, support for a wall is growing.The effects: The number of transportation security officers who aren’t showing up to work without pay keeps rising, leading to the closing of some airport checkpoints and longer wait times for travelers on Monday.From Opinion: Although the shutdown is painful, it’s a good time for T.S.A. workers to strike, two writers argue in an Op-Ed.Active-duty troops will most likely remain at the border with Mexico through September, the Defense Department said on Monday. About 5,900 troops were deployed there in October, as a caravan of Central American migrants made its way toward the U.S.The details: President Trump has said that a wall is necessary to stem a tide of migrants and drugs. We looked at the numbers he cites when describing the situation as a crisis.Closer look: Two Times journalists are filing occasional dispatches as they travel the length of the 2,000-mile border.Lawmakers are widely expected today to reject Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan to lead the country out of the European Union. A particularly severe loss could threaten Mrs. May’s government or even, she warned on Monday, the entire project. Britain is scheduled to leave the bloc on March 29, and most experts predict that a “no-deal” departure would be chaotic and economically damaging. We have live coverage leading up to the vote tonight in London.What’s next: If the measure fails, Mrs. May will face a range of possibilities, including quickly devising a backup plan or calling a second referendum.Reaction: “There’s an idea that we’ll all be all right in the end,” a political-science professor said. “Well, we may not.”Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, was stripped of two House committee seats on Monday, after he questioned why white supremacy is considered offensive.In an interview with The Times published last week, Mr. King said: “White nationalist, white supremacist, Western civilization — how did that language become offensive?”Mr. King has a long history of making racist remarks and insults about immigrants, and, with furor building, Republican leaders denounced him on Monday. The Senate majority leader, Mitch McConnell, suggested that Mr. King find “another line of work.”Response: Mr. King released a statement saying his comments had been misunderstood and that he would serve his district for “at least the next two years.”Just over a century ago, Jeannette Rankin of Montana won a seat in the House of Representatives, becoming the first American woman elected to federal office.One has become 131 — the number of women serving in both chambers of Congress as of this month. The Times photographed nearly all of them.Citizenship question rejected: A federal judge blocked the Trump administration from asking about citizenship in the 2020 census. The case will most likely reach the Supreme Court.Attorney general nominee: Confirmation hearingsfor William Barr, President Trump’s nominee for attorney genera are todayl. Follow our live coverage.  On Monday, Mr. Barr said he would allow the special counsel to continue his investigation into Russian election interference.President Trump and NATO: Mr. Trump privately said several times last year that he wanted to withdraw the U.S. from the 70-year-old military alliance with Europe and Canada.Wisconsin kidnapping plot: The suspect who has been charged with killing a couple and abducting their 13-year-old daughter, Jayme Closs, in October began planning the crime after a chance encounter, according to court documents.Inauguration spending: Private donors gave more than $100 million for President Trump’s inauguration two years ago, including $10,000 for makeup. Previously unreported details of the spending come as the inauguration committee faces legal scrutiny.Snapshot: Above, President Trump welcomed college football’s national champions, the Clemson Tigers, to the White House on Monday with a range of fast-food offerings. The press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders, attributed the menu to the shutdown, as some White House employees have been furloughed.In memoriam: Carol Channing, a larger-than-life Broadway star, was known for her performances in “Gentlemen Prefer Blondes” and “Hello, Dolly!” She died today at 97.Late-night comedy: The comedy hosts were unsurprised by the news that the F.B.I. was worried that President Trump might be secretly working for Russia. “I think that’s ridiculous,” Stephen Colbert said. “There’s nothing secret about it.”What we’re listening to: This episode of “This American Life.” Remy Tumin, who writes our Evening Briefing, says it captured the magic of libraries. As one librarian notes, “It’s one of the last places you can go that you don’t have to buy or believe in anything to come in.” Cook: Try a tomato-free take on pasta puttanesca, with garlic, anchovies, capers and tuna. (And sign up for Five Weeknight Dishes for more recipes in your inbox.)Watch: Watch Felicity Jones play a young Ruth Bader Ginsburg in a scene from “On the Basis of Sex” narrated by the film’s director.Listen: Jon Caramanica and guests discuss the Puerto Rican superstar Bad Bunny on the latest “Popcast,” our pop music team’s podcast.Go: The Infinite Love Party in Brooklyn is billed as a sex-positive celebration of queer people, people of color and their allies. Smarter Living: You can train your memory by connecting numbers to letters that can transform to sounds, sentences and images. (Memorization champions use such systems to break world records.) But remembering names simply requires paying attention and then using the name immediately. “The most useful trick isn’t a trick at all,” observed a memory champion. “It’s focus.”And our Smarter Living editor, Tim Herrera, had a relevant conversation about focusing with the author Cal Newport.Today is the 10th anniversary of a miracle.On Jan. 15, 2009, Capt. Chesley Sullenberger safely ditched his US Airways Airbus A320 in the Hudson River after striking a flock of geese while taking off from New York City.But the so-called Miracle on the Hudson hardly stands alone.In 1982, a British Airways crew glided its Boeing 747 down when volcanic ash clogged all four engines.A Taca pilot landed near New Orleans when his Boeing 737’s engines flamed out in a storm in 1988.And a DHL crew survived a missile strike.Soon after taking off on a cargo flight from Baghdad to Bahrain on Nov. 22, 2003, their Airbus A300 was hit by a surface-to-air missile launched by Iraqi insurgents. The damage made its flight controls inoperable.Using only the engines to control the plane’s direction and altitude, the crew headed back to the airport and landed their aircraft (mostly) on the runway.Where’s their Tom Hanks movie?That’s it for this briefing. (By the way, the egg now has more Instagram likes than the population of Canada.)See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford for the wide-ranging cultural guidance and James K. Williamson for the scientific Smarter Living tips. Zach Wichter wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” In today’s episode, a Times reporter who covers the Justice Department discusses William Barr.• The Times is introducing several audio features for devices enabled with Amazon’s Alexa, including a news briefing hosted by Michael Barbaro of “The Daily.”• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Vegan protein source (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" Advertisement

      By ANNIE DANIEL

MARCH 7, 2019

The House passed a resolution 407-23 on Thursday condemning anti-Semitism and other forms of bigotry. The measure began as a response to comments by Representative Ilhan Omar last week that pro-Israel activists were pushing “for allegiance to a foreign country.” Language that condemned other forms of hatred was eventually added as rank-and-file Democrats felt that Ms. Omar was being unfairly singled out.Every Democrat that voted approved of the measure, while 23 Republicans voted against it. Some lawmakers have asked for a resolution that exclusively rebukes anti-Semitism.Source: U.S. House of RepresentativesAdvertisement"
" Advertisement

      By JASMINE C. LEE and 
    
BLACKI MIGLIOZZI

FEB. 26, 2019

More than a dozen Republicans voted with Democrats to block President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency on the United States border with Mexico.If the Senate also passes the bill, Mr. Trump has promised that he would veto the bill to protect his emergency declaration.Several Republicans voted to block President Trump’s emergency declaration, including Representative Will Hurd of Texas, the only Republican lawmaker to represent a district on the United States border with Mexico.Democrats would need a supermajority, or more than two-thirds of the House and Senate, in future votes to override a veto by Mr. Trump.Note: There are currently three vacancies in the House.Source: U.S. House of RepresentativesAdvertisement"
" like a bossThe fitness start-up’s vice president of programming, who hydrates three different ways by 8 a.m., is essential to the company’s $4 billion valuation.CreditCreditLandon Nordeman for The New York TimesSupported byAs told to Natalie KitroeffRobin Arzón is a fitness instructor, but that label undersells her star power. She works at Peloton, a New York start-up that sells $2,245 bikes and $4,295 treadmills and streams live exercise classes to their internet-connected screens. Peloton prefers to call instructors like Ms. Arzón “talent” — because they are. From personal experience struggling through her classes, I can attest that Ms. Arzón is more like a cult leader than a coach; having weighed the options, I would rather die from cycling too fast than disappoint her. The company, which has sold 450,000 pieces of exercise equipment and may go public this year, last raised capital at a valuation of $4 billion. Some inestimable chunk of that is tied to Ms. Arzón.Part of her draw is a slate of catchphrases. “What’s six intervals” — of horrifically fast pedaling up the equivalent of a mountain — “to a queen?” she yells during class. “That little bit of panic that sets in,” she chirps, “that just means you care!” Her Instagram following tops 200,000, and the company says each of her workout sessions is taken 15,000 times.When Ms. Arzón, 37, whose official title is vice president of fitness programming, is not teaching or vigorously hydrating, she is also an Adidas brand ambassador and an author. Her book, a New York Times best seller, is “Shut Up and Run.” This month, I spent a week trying to keep up with her via text message.6:05 a.m. Make and guzzle H2O cocktail: room-temperature filtered water, dash of sea salt, quarter lemon, splash of apple cider vinegar. I don’t drink coffee, ever. I immediately feel replenished and energized. 6:30 a.m. Twenty-minute Vedic meditation. The second bedroom in my apartment is a Zen den with a plant wall, a small desk, books and cushions for meditation. 7 a.m. Cup of Onnit King Tea (Kenyan purple blend). I drink three or four cups of tea a day, ranging from matcha to herbal varieties. I spend the next 90 minutes on emails, reviewing my schedule, and get the most important messages out of the way. I really try to “eat the frog” with my most difficult task during this time so I can feel freer later in the day.I’m also multitasking by researching new music to play in class. I have over 1,000 Spotify playlists saved, organized by themes such as beat, mood, genre, running, spinning, lifting. 8 a.m. My husband and I have a 17-ingredient smoothie for breakfast. He created this monster smoothie, which is a staple of my day. Ingredients: vegan protein powder, magnesium, Athletic Greens, aloe vera, chlorophyll, glutamine, B.C.A.A.s, fresh kale/spinach, matcha powder, baobab, maca, nut butter, cacao nibs, chia seeds, moringa, water, ice. I have no idea how many calories are in this, and I don’t care. 8:50 a.m. Pick my looks. Between multiple workouts and being in front of the camera a few times during the day, I often have to style and pack two to five looks a day. Today I pack three outfits, including body wipes and on-the-go products to efficiently change in between meetings and workouts. 9 a.m. Pack all the snacks and all the food. I’m vegan, and I consume a lot of food to get me through the day. Today I’m bringing almonds, a Vega bar, an Athletic Greens packet (which I throw into a water bottle), Nuun tablets and a banana. I’ll probably eat all of that before lunch.9:30 a.m. Do my own workout at a private training facility. I dedicate five to seven hours a week to strength, conditioning and running on my own. Nothing keeps you raw like picking up heavy things.10:27 a.m. Lungs are burning so badly from my workout, it feels like I ingested fire. Quick shower and outfit change: I’m the master of being ready in under seven minutes. My hair is currently in braids, which marries style and efficiency.10:42 a.m. Uber to Tread studio listening to “Nice for What,” by Drake.11 a.m. Weekly senior staff meeting with Peloton’s chief content officer. I am snacking and hydrating. I drink more than a gallon of water a day.1:40 p.m. Uber home while listening to music and making my playlist for my ’90s Pop Run tonight.2 p.m. Continue researching music, making playlist for tonight, writing detailed class notes and creating the class plan. Each class playlist and class plan takes up to two hours of preparation. Peloton instructors are part D.J., part coach, part training partner. The class notes detail the workout, the songs, the exact timing of every part of the workout from warm-up to cool-down. There’s an art to it, just like a composer at an orchestra.5 p.m. Check my blood sugar. I’m a Type 1 diabetic, so I’ve been checking it once an hour all day. I also adjust my insulin depending on how I’m moving and what I’m consuming throughout the day.5:30 p.m. Showtime: 45 minutes of ’90s jams fuel the run on the Peloton Tread. After class, take photos with Peloton members and answer some of the 300 comments on my Facebook and Instagram posts today.7 p.m. Quick second shower, and then eat all the food. I’m hangry by this point. I cook most of my meals, but tonight it’s a veggie tofu curry with brown rice that’s left over from Sunday dinner.8 p.m. Watch “The Bachelor,” unapologetically. The physical energy expenditure from coaching while working out is obvious, but the psychic drain is very real. I need something at this point that demands absolutely nothing. 10 p.m. Bed. I’m in bed by this time every night, even on the weekend. Maybe 10 minutes of reading before I pass out. I just started “Brave, Not Perfect,” by Reshma Saujani. We are both former lawyers, and I love a good reinvention story.7 a.m. Wake up. I aim for nine hours a night religiously, and it’s the reason I have no social life.8 a.m. Do my own workout. Don’t bother showering because I’m running again in an hour and a half. I just use a baby wipe and keep it moving.10:30 a.m. Record Pop Fun Run and a marathon race prep class for 90 minutes.Noon My hair stylist, Tiffanie, is meeting me now to do my braids. I get my hair done once or twice a week.12:20 p.m. Review offers for branded sponsorships that came in to my agent, William Morris Entertainment. “Robinnyc” (my Instagram and Twitter name) is a brand within itself, so I’m always aware of that.3 p.m. Physical therapy session. I get P.T. or acupuncture every week. I really train, fuel and recover like a high-level athlete.5:30 p.m. Peloton cycling class for 45 minutes. My ride tonight was bought out by PwC.6:55 p.m. Stuck in traffic with a chatty Uber driver. I need to eat right now before I jump out of this vehicle. There’s no desire for small talk after performing in front of people all day. I’m an introvert by nature, actually. I once heard Amy Schumer describe her “outgoing persona” vs. an “introverted energy system” on “Oprah” and thought, “Aah, that’s me.”It’s an interesting job, to work out in front of a camera. There’s no room for an off day when you’re the source of energy, instruction and entertainment.6:47 a.m. Pack for a Denver speaking engagement with the Integer Group, a marketing agency.8 a.m. Work out. Pro athletes don’t only work out during a game. I train like a pro to be able to teach. It requires being able to host a show, coach and work out.12:30 p.m. Two-hour meeting with all treadmill instructors. We are workshopping ways to keep content fresh. We discuss everything from social media activations, music themes, combo movements, loading variations, tempo and proprioception.4:30 p.m. Teach two cycling classes for a total of 40 minutes. Powerful energy in those riders.7:16 p.m. Board a plane to Denver. I love flying. I almost never do work on flights and consider it a mini-vacation to read and listen to podcasts. I listen to Joe Rogan, Tim Ferris, “Modern Love,” “Stuff You Should Know,” Oprah and “GaryVee.”6 a.m. Gym for an hour. My days “off” are Thursday and Sunday, but I always have shoots and speaking engagements on Thursdays because they won’t disrupt my teaching schedule.7:50 a.m. Avocado toast for breakfast. Half my carry-on is food (salad, noodles, trail mix, bars). If I’m in a pinch and there’s nothing healthy, I eat oatmeal, which most hotels have. I also travel with Greens powder, a great nutrient boost. I refuse to eat like crap or I will have no energy.10 a.m. Give my speech.11:08 a.m. Off to the airport while working on social media for Adidas’s “She Breaks Barriers” campaign.12:30 p.m. In the airport, I am stopped by five different Peloton members. I love those interactions. People are so excited, and it’s palpable to feel the impact we have being in their homes. One time, someone took a photo of my shopping cart at Whole Foods, and that was odd, but it’s been mostly positive encounters. Even dogs and babies know and respond to our voices.4:25 p.m. On the plane, reviewing the weekly report that distills all of our workout data. Similar to a TV network, we look at the numbers and see what’s trending: What do our members want more or less of, exhibited by workouts taken daily/monthly/yearly.5:31 p.m. Just found out Shonda Rhimes is following me on Instagram. I very much love her work (ethic), so that’s a nice surprise.8:47 p.m. Back home in Manhattan. Soup, salad and bed. I’m totally drained!7 a.m. Make a full breakfast of tofu scramble and avocado toast while I look over instructor audition videos. It’s a small bull’s-eye that we are looking for. Peloton instructors need to be fitness experts but also be able to essentially host a live TV show while working out. It’s definitely not an open casting call, and never will be.1:30 p.m. Teach a women’s history cycling ride. People flew in from Kansas, Hawaii and Alaska to take it in person. One woman told me the bike saved her marriage because she and her partner now have a common hobby.4:30 p.m. Meet with my producer. Every instructor has a producer to watch, review and plan his or her content, marketing and social media for Peloton.7:30 p.m. Make jackfruit taco bowls for dinner. Friday night ritual is a movie with husband. Tonight it’s “Free Solo.” I’m a sucker for athletic feats — shocker.Interviews are condensed and edited.An earlier version of this article misspelled the surname of a television producer and writer. She is Shonda Rhimes, not Rimes.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Audra D. S. Burch, Alan Blinder and John Eligon[For more coverage of race, sign up here to have our Race/Related newsletter delivered weekly to your inbox.]MONTGOMERY, Ala. — Known as one of the most celebrated civil rights lawyers of his time, Morris Dees spent nearly a half-century building the Southern Poverty Law Center into one of the nation’s wealthiest and best-known legal advocacy groups.He faced down the Ku Klux Klan in the 1980s, and developed his organization, founded in 1971 near the church in Montgomery where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. preached, into a crusading anti-hate empire dedicated to fighting extremism in the United States.But the group now finds itself beset by internal conflict. Mr. Dees has been fired and other top executives have quit. The staff is demanding that leaders address a climate of intolerance inside its offices. The tumult, including pointed allegations of sexual harassment and racial discrimination, comes as the center’s influence has surged in the Trump era.With an endowment of about $471 million, an enormous sum in the nonprofit world, it has won over donors with deep pockets. In the aftermath of the deadly violence at a white nationalist gathering in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017, Tim Cook, the head of Apple, announced the company would donate $1 million.Last year, the center identified over 1,000 hate groups across the country. Its Intelligence Project, which monitors “the radical right,” has been used as a resource by law enforcement officials and the news media.At the same time, the center has come under scrutiny from conservative groups who have accused the organization of maligning them for political differences. Since the 2016 presidential election, hiring at the S.P.L.C. has increased.Mr. Dees’s firing ended a career studded with successes but shadowed by questions of sexual misconduct and racism. The center’s president, Richard Cohen, and other senior leaders recently said they would follow Mr. Dees out the door.Although the center has refused to detail the circumstances behind Mr. Dees’s firing, it said it had dismissed its 82-year-old co-founder after he was twice investigated for “inappropriate conduct.” Both inquiries, the organization suggested, led to discipline.Mr. Dees has denied wrongdoing, but he acknowledged that he was the subject of a 2017 complaint made by a female employee who said his actions had made her feel uncomfortable.Current and former employees said Mr. Dees’s dismissal was only part of the turbulence rattling a social justice organization afflicted by morale issues, staff turnover and a sense that the center has not embraced the values that it champions across the country.“Aside from the NAACP Legal Defense Fund, it has probably been the single most responsive and reliable civil rights institution in the South,” said U. W. Clemon, who was the first black federal judge in Alabama.This article is based on interviews with more than a dozen current and former S.P.L.C. employees, board members and close observers, as well as reviews of internal documents and public records. Most people who were interviewed spoke on the condition of anonymity because they said they feared retaliation.Discontent among employees at the center boiled over this month when a well-respected black lawyer announced her resignation.After the resignation, 20 employees signed their names to a letter to the organization’s executives, writing that “allegations of mistreatment, sexual harassment, gender discrimination, and racism threaten the moral authority of this organization and our integrity along with it.”Hours after the letter was sent, the center announced to the public that Mr. Dees had been fired.In a second letter, sent after Mr. Dees had been publicly let go, other employees asserted that the organization’s leadership had covered up allegations against Mr. Dees and been “complicit” in decades of discrimination and sexual misconduct.Former employees said that in recent years, Mr. Cohen, the president since 2003, ordered the removal of an exit-interview question about workplace culture after he had been told of at least one allegation against Mr. Dees.“I was told not to ask that question of employees any more,” said Sandra Orum, a former human resources specialist who said she was asked to resign last year for mismanaging exit-interview data.Mr. Dees said he has not been active in day-to-day operations at the center for some time, but as the co-founder of the organization and its star fund-raiser, his presence has loomed large.He opened the center in the aftermath of major civil rights legislation. In a lynching case during the 1980s, he won an award of $7 million in damages against the United Klans of America and its supporters, and soared to fame, becoming one of the nation’s most respected lawyers.A salesman so skilled that he was added to the Direct Marketing Association’s Hall of Fame, Mr. Dees was the center’s charismatic frontman and a draw for donors whom he regaled with accounts of courtroom battles in defense of justice and equality.But among employees, Mr. Dees has had a troubling reputation for a long time.Several women who have worked at the center said they were cautioned against being alone in a room with him. Others who worked there said they had witnessed inappropriate touching or heard him make lewd remarks.Jason Brooks, a paralegal in Montgomery in 2016, said he had personally heard Mr. Dees say “I like chocolate” in the presence of black women, which he took as a sexual innuendo. (Mr. Dees said he never made the comment.)There were also instances, Mr. Brooks said, when he witnessed Mr. Dees approach seated women from behind and put his hands on their shoulders.Although Mr. Dees denied that he was a sexual harasser, he acknowledged that he was the subject of a 2017 complaint after an encounter in Atlanta made an employee uncomfortable.According to Mr. Dees, he approached the woman and “touched my hand across the top of her shoulder” and introduced himself. He asked about the woman’s visible tattoos, he recalled, and said he had one himself, pointing to his leg.The woman complained to human resources, Mr. Dees said.In a subsequent email that was reviewed by The New York Times, Mr. Cohen told Mr. Dees that “no one has ever suggested that you harassed someone,” but that he had “no choice” but to investigate. Had there not been an inquiry, Mr. Cohen wrote in the email, the episode “would have metastasized.”Mr. Dees said he was counseled that his behavior had unnerved the woman but said there was no other discipline.The S.P.L.C. did not disclose the details of its inquiries into Mr. Dees’s behavior, and Mr. Dees said he had not even known of a second investigation that the center signaled had led to his firing this month.The center’s problems did not end there. Throughout its history, the organization’s leadership has mostly been white, and in 1994, The Montgomery Advertiser reported on complaints from black employees that they were “treated like second-class citizens.”The Advertiser’s reporting, which Mr. Dees bitterly disputes to this day, caused a stir but no enduring changes, employees said.“They weren’t even trying to be diverse in terms of reflecting the people who they served,” said Dana Vickers Shelley, a former staff member who was among the highest-ranking black employees at the center.When Ms. Shelley told Mr. Cohen of her resignation, she recalled that he asked what a subordinate, a black woman, intended to do. Ms. Shelley said she replied that she did not know.“His response to me that I will never forget was, ‘Well, the 13th Amendment says she can do whatever she wants,’” said Ms. Shelley, who left the organization in 2014. (The 13th Amendment abolished slavery.)Former employees said racially callous remarks at the center were not uncommon, and that professional voices of people of color were often sidelined, affecting the center’s work and priorities. Questions swirled over equal pay and advancement. There were sporadic pledges to try to address these inequities, but they persisted.Vanzetta McPherson, a former federal magistrate who sat on the S.P.L.C. board, said she did not remember “any concrete steps that the board took to address” workplace racial disparities.“It’s not unusual for whites who run institutions and organs aimed at improving the lot of nonwhites to assume that they know what’s best and to give more credence to their point of view about what’s best,” said Ms. McPherson, then speaking broadly about such groups.At the center, leadership seemed to show little interest in engaging with, or even acknowledging, the organization’s own internal biases, current and former employees said.Amir Whitaker is a black lawyer who worked at the center for three years and left in 2016. He said leaders once responded to racial bias complaints by hiring a speaker for a session on the issue.According to Mr. Whitaker’s recollection, toward the end of the session, Rhonda Brownstein, a white lawyer who resigned from a top post at the organization this month, asked, “What if people are calling you a racist or saying things are racism but they’re just wrong?”The question left Mr. Whitaker dismayed, he said, because it seemed to be a defensive denial of the S.P.L.C.’s internal problems with racism.In an email, Ms. Brownstein disputed Mr. Whitaker’s characterization of her question, calling it “inconsistent with a career of acting in a very different way.”Mr. Dees said he believes his ouster was the climax of a battle over whether he should retire from the center. He said Mr. Cohen had told him this month that he was on the verge of being fired, and he began to prepare a settlement, but was dismissed in a text message before the two sides could reach an agreement.In the message, which Mr. Dees showed to a reporter, Mr. Cohen cited Mr. Dees’s “conduct” and the “statements you’ve made in the presence of your co-workers.”The dismissal, it read, was “for the good of the center.”On Friday, after The Times asked the S.P.L.C. to respond to its findings, the center offered its fullest account yet of what led to Mr. Dees’s downfall, but it largely refused to address specific allegations or personnel matters.“We will not respond to individual allegations publicly,” said the center, which declined to make Mr. Cohen available for an interview.Within hours of the center disclosing the two investigations into Mr. Dees, Mr. Cohen told employees that he would step down. He said in an internal email, “Whatever problems exist at the S.P.L.C. happened on my watch, so I take responsibility for them.”Mr. Dees said he did not bear a grudge against the organization he helped power for decades, but that he was saddened that his critics “would go to extreme measures” to undermine his career. “I guess I’m a trial lawyer, and so things come and go,” Mr. Dees said. “When the facts are all said and done, my reputation is not going to be hurt.”The center’s board has hired Tina Tchen, Michelle Obama’s former chief of staff, to assess its workplace culture. In a statement, the board chairman, Bryan Fair, said that recent events had been “an eye-opening reminder that the walk toward justice must sometimes start at your own front door, and force you to look at your past so you can improve your future.”Audra D. S. Burch and Alan Blinder reported from Montgomery, Ala., and John Eligon from Kansas City, Mo. Reporting was contributed by Campbell Robertson from Pittsburgh, and Julia Jacobs, Christopher Mele, Timothy Williams and Karen Zraick from New York. Grace Ashford and Alain Delaquérière contributed research.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A new research paper tracked the political donations of thousands of C.E.O.s from 2000 through 2017. The results, Andrew writes in his latest column, reveal what top business leaders really think about politics.They’re usually Republican. Nearly 58 percent of C.E.O.s showed a preference for the G.O.P., with just 18 percent designated as Democrats. (For executives to be counted as either, two thirds of their donations had to go to candidates affiliated with one party.)About a quarter were considered neutral. The report doesn’t disclose who was in each category, but its authors told Andrew that Tim Cook of Apple was neutral, having donated to both Hillary Clinton and Paul Ryan over the years.The disparity was narrower in some sectors. Tech and internet companies had somewhat more Democratic-leaning C.E.O.s. And female leaders were nearly evenly split between the G.O.P., Democrats and neutral territory.But the Republicans are quieter. The study found that there was a statistically significant association between a company having a Republican C.E.O. and less disclosure of political contributions.Why it matters: “The opinions held by executives have always resonated beyond their own industries, but their importance is more pronounced today,” Andrew writes. “Mr. Trump, for example, has not hesitated to equate economic policy with foreign policy. It is, then, instructive to understand the political views of our business leaders.”The U.S. and China will embark on another round of high-level trade talks in a final attempt to hash out an agreement, according to the WSJ.• “U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin plan to fly to Beijing next week to meet with Chinese Vice Premier Liu He, Trump administration officials said.”• “The following week, a Chinese delegation led by Mr. Liu is expected to continue talks in Washington.”There are conflicting views on how far they’ve got: America seems upbeat. President Trump yesterday said that talks were “going very well,” and Myron Brilliant, executive vice president of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said that “we’re in the endgame.” But China may be wary. “Some U.S. negotiators are concerned that China is pushing back against American demands in trade talks,” Bloomberg reports, citing unnamed sources. It may walk back some promises because they didn’t prompt assurances about American concessions.A deal could be ready by the end of April if the next talks go well, the WSJ estimates, about a month later than previously expected.Meanwhile, in Europe:  President Xi Jinping’s trip to Italy and France this week is drawing attention to Europe’s conflicted views on China.After years of criticism, Facebook said it would no longer permit advertisers in key categories to show their messages only to people of a certain race, gender or age group, Noam Scheiber and Mike Isaac of the NYT report.• Anyone advertising housing, jobs or credit would no longer have the option of explicitly aiming ads on the basis of those characteristics.• The new rules also cover advertising on Instagram and Messenger, which Facebook owns.• Facebook said it planned to carry out the changes by the end of the year.• The changes are part of a settlement with groups that have sued Facebook over these practices in recent years.The shift will annoy advertisers. Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s C.O.O., told the NYT that the changes could make advertising on Facebook less efficient for some customers, but that it was “a cost well worth bearing.”And it has limits. “I don’t think it solves the problem of the potential for biased serving of ads,” Pauline Kim, a professor of employment law at Washington University in St. Louis, told the NYT. She explained that Facebook’s algorithms could show any ad to a particular audience if that audience were determined to be likelier to click on it.More Facebook news: Representative David Cicilline, the head of the House antitrust subcommittee, explains why he is calling on the F.T.C. to investigate the company. And are we asking it the wrong questions in the wake of the Christchurch shooting?In the wake of two fatal crashes involving Boeing’s 737 Max 8 plane, a new focus for investigations is how the F.A.A. certified the jet as safe, David Gelles and Tom Kaplan of the NYT report.• “The 737 Max was one of the first commercial jets approved under new rules, which delegated more authority to Boeing than had been the case when most previous planes were certified.”• “Top F.A.A. officials, who are briefed on significant safety issues, were not aware” of an automated piloting system suspected in the crashes, Mr. Gelles and Mr. Kaplan report, citing unnamed sources.• “The software did not elicit what are known as special conditions, usually applied to a novel feature that requires additional regulations before it can be certified as safe.” But other features, like non-rechargeable lithium batteries, received that designation.• Skepticism about the F.A.A.’s approval process existed before the crashes. “In 2012, an investigation by the Transportation Department’s Office of Inspector General found that F.A.A. managers had not always been supportive of efforts by agency employees to ‘hold Boeing accountable.’ ”• “The United States transportation secretary, Elaine L. Chao, on Tuesday called for her agency’s internal watchdog to open an inquiry into the process.”More aviation news: President Trump nominated Stephen Dickson, a former Delta Air Lines executive, to lead the F.A.A. And an off-duty pilot reportedly helped save a Lion Air 737 Max 8 flight in software-driven trouble just one day before the same jet crashed.The tech giant introduced a service yesterday that allows people to play high-definition games instantly over the internet. It’s hoping to lead a revolution in the $135 billion industry.Think of it as Netflix for video games. “The new service, called Stadia, will work for anyone with a fast internet connection and a computer, phone or tablet,” Daisuke Wakabayashi and Brian Chen of the NYT write. “Users pay a subscription to access a library of games that they can immediately play, as opposed to the traditional model of paying for a disc or waiting to download a game.”This isn’t the only game-streaming option. Sony offers one called PlayStation Now, and Microsoft plans to test something similar this year. The idea hasn’t yet hit the mainstream because streaming games is more technically demanding than streaming movies — and therefore prone to glitches.Plenty of unanswered questions hang over the announcement. What games will be available? How much will the service cost? And more fundamentally, what is Google’s business model? None of that is clear.But Google has not-so-secret weapons. “Using the global network of data centers that run its internet empire, it is set to unleash enough raw computing power to blow away the industry’s current way of doing things,” the FT writes, and it has “YouTube as a shop window.” Shares in Sony and Nintendo tumbled after the announcement.More Google news: In Europe, the company is changing how it displays some search results, and is giving Android users a choice of web browser to stave off complaints — and potential fines — from antitrust regulators.Just after midnight Eastern Time, Walt Disney closed its $71.3 billion takeover of 21st Century Fox. It has become, Brooks Barnes of the NYT writes, “an entertainment colossus the size of which the world has never seen.”Disney now owns an enviable array of assets. It already runs blockbuster properties like Marvel, Lucasfilm and ESPN, and a huge global theme-park operation. But buying most of Rupert Murdoch’s media empire brings:• The 20th Century Fox movie and TV studios, home to “X-Men” and “The Simpsons”• The Nat Geo and FX cable channels• Most of the Hulu streaming service• Star, the fast-growing Indian video providerThe consequences could be huge. Smaller studios may have to merge. Theater owners could lose out on box-office splits. And Disney’s efforts to dominate streaming could pose big challenges to Netflix, Amazon and Apple.But the stakes are high. “Mr. Iger and his lieutenants need to persuade investors to start viewing Disney more like a technology company, where near-term financial turbulence is often overlooked,” Mr. Barnes writes. And melding two corporate cultures isn’t easy.Anheuser-Busch InBev named Marty Barrington, the former C.E.O. of Altria, as its new chairman. Alex Behring, the head of the investment firm 3G Capital, stepped down from the board.Paul Ryan, the former House speaker, has joined the board of Fox.WarnerMedia named Toby Emmerich, Peter Roth and Kimberly Williams as interim co-heads of Warner Bros. while it seeks a replacement for Kevin Tsujihara.Kickstarter’s co-founder Perry Chen is stepping down as C.E.O.Barclays has hired Bob Peck, who was global head of internet investment banking at Credit Suisse, as a chairman of global internet banking.Deals• Lyft’s I.P.O. is reportedly oversubscribed, just two days after it started pitching to prospective investors. (Reuters)• Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany plans to stay out of merger talks between Deutsche Bank and Commerzbank. (NYT)• Apax and Warburg Pincus are leading a $3.3 billion takeover bid for Inmarsat, the satellite operator. (FT)• Glossier, the online cosmetics company, raised $100 million from investors led by Sequoia at a $1.2 billion valuation. (Bloomberg)• Hyundai shareholders are expected to back the company in its fight against Elliott Management, which aims to shake up the carmaker’s board. (Nikkei)Politics and policy• Joe Biden reportedly told supporters that he plans to run for the Democratic presidential nomination. (WSJ)• Robert Mueller began investigating Michael Cohen’s emails in 2017, within months of starting as special counsel. (NYT)• How billions of dollars from military projects across the country could be used for President Trump’s border wall. (Axios)• The Trump administration has lost at least 63 court battles in the last two years, often for failing to provide clear explanations and allow public comment on decisions. (WaPo)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain will seek a short delay — reportedly up to three months — to Brexit. (FT)• The European Commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, said that European leaders may decide whether to grant a delay next week. The current Brexit deadline is next Friday. (Guardian)• Financial services companies may move an estimated £1 trillion, or $1.32 trillion, in financial assets out of Britain because of Brexit, according to the consulting firm EY. (FT)Tech• Apple is working with three nonprofits to develop anti-disinformation programs. (Axios)• Instagram introduced a feature that lets users buy clothes within its app. (NYT)• Myspace, the once-popular social network, says it may have permanently lost millions of photos, videos, and audio files from its peak period. (NYT)• An argument against breaking up Big Tech: Innovation could stagnate. (FT op-ed)• Airbnb hasn’t raised money in two years, so valuing it for an I.P.O. is tricky. (Recode)Best of the rest• Chinese companies are defaulting at “unprecedented” levels. (CNBC)• Economists around the world are trying to find an alternative to G.D.P. as a measure of prosperity. Here’s how that’s going. (Axios)• The S.E.C. plans to examine whether consolidation is reducing competition among U.S. asset managers. (FT)• The center fielder Mike Trout is reportedly near a $430 million deal with the L.A. Angels, which would be the biggest contract in North American sports history.. (ESPN)• Bill Gates has joined Jeff Bezos in the club of centibillionaires. They’re the only members. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday morning. ICYMI: Tiger Woods wasn’t the only winner from the Masters yesterday. So was Nike — which turned out this ad within minutes of his victory. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)Economists at Goldman Sachs wrote in a research note over the weekend that President Trump has a “narrow” advantage over his potential Democratic challenger next year, according to news reports.• Prediction markets have suggested that a Democratic challenger is likely to win.• But Bloomberg reported that the Goldman economists, Alec Phillips and Blake Taylor, argue that, “The advantage of first term incumbency and the relatively strong economic performance ahead of the presidential election suggest that President Trump is more likely to win a second term than the eventual Democratic candidate is to defeat him.”• And polls that include Howard Schultz as a potential third-party candidate show him reducing the Democratic vote share by around 2 percentage points more than the Republican vote share.• The Goldman economists acknowledged that Mr. Trump will face headwinds. Among them: “Groups that most strongly supported President Trump in 2016 made up a smaller share of total voters in 2018 than they did in 2014.”____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in New York, and Michael J. de la Merced and Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________Jay Powell, the Fed chairman, must oversee the central bank while President Trump needles him in public and the markets are volatile. Jim Tankersley and Neil Irwin of the NYT take a look at how he’s responding.• After a disastrous news conference in December, “Mr. Powell spent the holidays holed up at a family gathering in South Florida watching financial market swings, negative corporate news and shaky economic data — and plotted a way to correct the mistakes. He scratched out bullet points on a notepad and waited for an opportunity to publicly pivot.”• “Publicly and privately, Mr. Powell rejects any suggestion that Mr. Trump has influenced his, or the Fed’s, actions. Mr. Powell said this year that he would not resign if the president asked him to.”• “According to interviews with colleagues, friends and lawmakers, Mr. Powell has spent the past several months pushing the Fed toward more growth-oriented policies, not because Mr. Trump is demanding it, but because he believes economic data have given the Fed no other choice.”• “Among colleagues, Mr. Powell has emphasized the importance of not letting political considerations cause the central bank to err in either of two directions. One risk would be to bend toward the will of elected officials, which could put the economy’s long-term stability at risk.”• “He has also mentioned a more subtle risk: stubbornly insisting on doing the opposite of what a president seeks to prove independence, and in that way doing the wrong thing. That, too, could be viewed as political interference.”But worries remain among former Fed officials and central bankers around the world about Mr. Trump’s attempts at pressure. “I’m certainly worried about central bank independence in other countries, especially … in the most important jurisdiction in the world,” Mario Draghi of the European Central Bank said over the weekend.More: The Fed released transcripts of interviews with former U.S. presidents, detailing 50 years of the central bank’s history.Apple’s long conflict with the wireless chip maker Qualcomm is headed for a crucial court showdown this week, Don Clark of the NYT reports:• “Apple says Qualcomm should also repay $3.1 billion associated with patents whose rights Apple says are exhausted.”• “Qualcomm, in return, estimates that Apple’s partners — Foxconn, Pegatron, Wistron and Compal Electronics — owe more than $7.5 billion in unpaid royalties.”• “The action moves to a federal courtroom in San Diego, where jury selection is set to begin on Monday for a trial on an Apple lawsuit and Qualcomm’s counterclaims.”• “Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive; Philip Schiller, the company’s senior vice president of worldwide marketing; Qualcomm’s chief executive, Steven Mollenkopf; and its co-founder Irwin Jacobs could all be called to testify.”• The case “touches on two crucial issues for the tech industry: What is the proper balance between patent rights and competition? And what is the proper role of the government in regulating tech giants?”There was a large elephant in the room when President Trump announced a push to build out America’s next-generation wireless networks, Julian E. Barnes and David E. Sanger of the NYT report.The biggest auction to date of U.S. spectrum for 5G was announced by Mr. Trump on Friday. “Secure 5G networks will absolutely be a vital link to America’s prosperity and national security in the 21st century,” he said.Not mentioned: Huawei. “Mr. Trump has so far remained silent on whether the United States would issue an order essentially banning Chinese firms like Huawei from building those networks,” Mr. Barnes and Mr. Sanger report. The Trump administration has expressed fear that Huawei’s inexpensive network hardware is a national security threat and could be used by Beijing for spying.American attempts at a global ban on Huawei still aren’t working. Jochen Homann, the president of Germany’s telecommunications regulator, said that, in his agency’s view, “no equipment supplier, including Huawei, should, or may, be specifically excluded,” according to the FT. Politico reports that the British government is split over the same issue.But security remains a U.S. concern. America’s 5G networks must be “guarded from the enemy — and we do have enemies out there,” Mr. Trump said. U.S. officials believe it is “essential for countries to set up screening systems for foreign investments in the 5G era,” according to Nikkei Asian Review.Companies are expected to report shrinking profits for the first half of 2019. How big a problem is that?“Consensus forecasts now point to a 0.4 percent drop in earnings per share for the three months to June, compared to the same period last year, according to FactSet,” the FT reports. “That follows estimates of a 4.6 percent decline in the first quarter, which would round off two back-to-back quarters of falling profits to earn the label of an earnings recession.”“The market has completely ignored predictions of declining earnings growth in the first quarter,” Axios reports. “There’s been an acceptance that earnings growth was bound to decelerate this year after getting a boost from the tax cut in 2018. Profits aren’t falling because of declining sales, but margins are shrinking thanks to higher labor and material costs.”What happens next is unclear. If global growth and trade tensions continue to trouble investors, a sell-off could rear its head. But better-than-expected results from JPMorgan Chase and PNC Financial last week suggest that, if wider economic conditions don’t become any gloomier, things could keep humming along for a little while yet.The Writers Guild of America told its 13,000 members on Friday to fire their agents, throwing Hollywood into chaos over a mounting dispute over pay.The W.G.A. has two big issues with talent agencies like Endeavor and C.A.A.:• A practice known as “packaging,” where agencies put together clients as a package for a given project, taking a lump-sum fee from studios. The guild says that this shortchanges writers.• Agencies increasingly produce content themselves, which means that executives who should fight for their writers instead sit across the negotiating table from their clients.Top writers like Stephen King and Damon Lindelof have fired their agents, and posted the letters to social media.“Agencies have called the writers’ claims preposterous, arguing that their services are needed more than ever in a changing media environment in which Netflix, Amazon and Apple are on the rise,” John Koblin of the NYT reports.It’s an awkward time for a feud: The TV industry is heading into “staffing season,” where networks finalize their fall lineups and hire writers to work on shows.As you stand in line at the post office waiting to mail your tax return today, here is something to consider: Next year may be even tougher.You probably got a tax cut this year. Only about 40 percent of Americans believed that they benefited from the Trump tax cuts, a new poll by SurveyMonkey for the NYT finds. But data show that about 65 percent of Americans owe less under the new law.But act now for next year. Tara Siegel Bernard of the NYT notes that changes to the tax code mean that many taxpayers probably aren’t withholding enough from their paychecks — leading to a bigger bill next year:• “New guidance from the Internal Revenue Service prompted employers to adjust workers’ paychecks last March in an attempt to match up what they would owe under the new tax plan.”• “And in some cases — if taxpayers didn’t update the relevant withholding forms — they ended up owing money, even if their total tax liability dropped.”Foxconn’s founder and chairman, Terry Gou, said that he planned to step down in the next several months.Facebook plans to appoint Peggy Alford, a PayPal executive, as its first African-American board member. Two current directors, Reed Hasting and Erskine Bowles, will step down.Caesars Entertainment reportedly plans to hire Anthony Rodio, the chief executive of Affinity Gaming, as its new C.E.O.Deals• Bristol-Myers Squibb shareholders approved the company’s $74 billion acquisition of Celgene. (Bloomberg)• Analysts applauded Chevron’s $33 billion deal for Anadarko as “something of a steal,” but investors sent Chevron’s shares down 6 percent on Friday. (Bloomberg)• Purdue Pharma reportedly tried to buy Reckitt Benckiser’s opioid addiction treatment business. (FT)• Publicis agreed to buy Alliance Data’s Epsilon marketing services unit for $4.4 billion. (WSJ)• European regulators reportedly want Deutsche Bank to scale back its investment bank, regardless of any deal with Commerzbank. (FT)Politics and policy• Senator Kamala Harris released 15 years’ worth of her tax returns. Related: An argument for why everyone’s tax returns should be public. (CNBC, NYT Op-Ed)• Gov. Gavin Newsom of California urged the state’s legislature to protect utilities like PG&E from the cost of wildfires. (NYT)• The White House is reportedly considering further restrictions on immigration for students and investors. (WSJ)• President Trump raised $30 million for his re-election campaign in the first quarter, far outstripping Democratic rivals. (NYT)• Here’s how Mr. Trump’s team plans to tackle the release of Robert Mueller’s report, despite not knowing what the full document says. (Axios, NYT)Boeing• American and Southwest extended flight cancellations into August as the Boeing 737 Max jetliners remain grounded. (WSJ)• Concerns about Boeing’s anti-stall software are roiling industries focused on autonomous machines. (FT)Brexit• The British financial sector seems to have failed in its Brexit lobbying campaign. (FT)• The departure from the E.U. could make it harder for the Bank of England to find its next governor. (Reuters)• British companies are hoarding cash over fears of an economic downturn. (Reuters)Trade• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that he believed the U.S. and China were nearing the final stage of trade negotiations. (NYT)• In the talks, U.S. negotiators have reportedly backed away from demands that China curb its industrial subsidies. (Reuters)• How President Trump is undercutting his own trade deals. (NYT)Tech• China is using A.I. to profile members of a largely Muslim minority group. (NYT)• Citi Bike was forced to pull electric cycles off the streets after complaints about the brakes, another black eye for its parent company, Lyft. (Business Insider)• Google’s huge stash of location data about users is being used by investigators to find suspects and witnesses near crimes — but it sometimes snares the innocent. (NYT)• Google is disbanding a second A.I. ethics panel, this one based in Britain and charged with reviewing its work in health care. (WSJ)• Do Alphabet’s smart-city plans for Toronto face a backlash similar to that against Amazon’s HQ2 plans in New York? (Business Insider)• Jack Ma called a 72-hour workweek a “huge blessing.” (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Germany is under pressure from the I.M.F. to stimulate economic growth. (WSJ)• The Indian airline Jet Airways is on the brink of shutting down. (NYT)• Rite Aid will stop selling e-cigarettes and vaping products. (NYT)• A 10-day trading break in Japan for national holidays is spooking global markets. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Guns Down America, a gun-control advocacy group, has graded 15 banks based on their support for the gun industry, Tiffany Hsu of the NYT reports. Most received dismal appraisals.• “Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.”• The group used a 100-point scale that weighed factors like “a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers” and “discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.”• Citi got an 84. JPMorgan got a 48. BB&T, the lowest-ranking bank on the list, got a 20, in part for loans and financing that it arranged for gun makers like Smith & Wesson.• “We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Igor Volsky, the group’s executive director, told Ms. Hsu. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”• Ms. Hsu writes that “several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.”Carlos Ghosn was arrested for a fourth time today, as prosecutors hit him with new charges of using company funds for personal ends. The former Nissan chairman claims that it’s part of an effort to silence him.This time, he was accused of using a Nissan subsidiary in Oman to send millions of dollars of payments to one of the carmaker’s foreign business partners, which then passed it on to a company Mr. Ghosn controlled.Mr. Ghosn did this three times between 2015 and 2018, resulting in $5 million in losses to Nissan, according to prosecutors.He may be held in solitary confinement for at least 20 days, the FT reports, citing unnamed people close to his family. It adds that it is highly unusual in the Japanese legal system for someone released on bail to be rearrested.Mr. Ghosn blamed “some individuals at Nissan” for his “outrageous and arbitrary arrest,” saying they were attempting “to silence me by misleading the prosecutors.” He had tweeted yesterday that he planned to hold a news conference next Thursday to tell “the truth about what’s going on.”That tweet and arrest raise an interesting question: Did he violate the terms of his bail, which restrict his internet access?Cybersecurity researchers have found data about hundreds of millions of Facebook users stored publicly by a third party on Amazon’s cloud servers, according to Bloomberg.• “In one instance, Mexico City-based digital platform Cultura Colectiva openly stored 540 million records on Facebook users, including identification numbers, comments, reactions and account names. The records were accessible and downloadable for anyone who could find them online.”• “In the Cultura Colectiva dataset, which totaled 146 gigabytes, it was difficult for researchers to know how many unique Facebook users were affected.”• The researchers also “ had trouble working to get the database closed.”• “A Facebook spokesperson said that the company’s policies prohibit storing Facebook information in a public database. Once it was alerted to the issue, Facebook worked with Amazon to take down the databases.”It has been over a year since the Cambridge Analytica scandal showed how widely Facebook had shared user data with third-party app developers. The social network began to audit that data-sharing last year, but the research report shows the struggle the company still faces.More: Facebook is paying the British newspaper The Telegraph to publish sponsored articles that play down concerns about its practices. New research suggests that its algorithms target ads by race and gender even when advertisers request a broad audience. And have Mark Zuckerberg’s tech regulation proposals been treated unfairly?President Trump is expected to meet China’s trade envoy, Liu He, in Washington later today. That could be a sign of progress on some of the sticking points surrounding a potential deal, according to Bob Davis of the WSJ.The U.S. and China have been at odds over tariffs imposed on $250 billion of Chinese goods. Washington sees them as a way to ensure that China sticks to the deal; Beijing wants them removed as soon as it’s signed. China has few other hard demands, and U.S. businesses have urged the Trump administration to remove the tariffs.There could be workarounds. The U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, has “been using the tariff issue to push for another U.S. priority — that China agree to a no-retaliation clause in a trade deal,” Mr. Davis reports. The plan, which could let the U.S. unilaterally impose levies on Chinese goods if China does not comply, could “help him persuade Mr. Trump to approve the agreement and lift a substantial amount of tariffs.”“Mr. Trump is looking to announce on Thursday the date of a summit with Mr. Xi,” an unnamed Trump administration official told Mr. Davis. “That’s a big signal the two sides are on the cusp of a deal, trade experts say, and a resolution of the tariff issue.”But “the situation is fluid, and plans could change,” the official added.Senator Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate’s tax-writing committee, has an idea that could radically change how America taxes the 1 percent, according to the WSJ.Mr. Wyden proposed taxing gains in asset values annually, at the same rate as other income. Gains are currently taxed only when investors sell an asset, and at a top rate of 23.8 percent, rather than the 37 percent for ordinary income.The senator said his plan would “eliminate serious loopholes that allow some to pay a lower rate than wage earners, to delay their taxes indefinitely, and in some cases, to avoid paying tax at all.”Challenges to the plan include how to value gains in complex assets, how to handle declines in value, and how to apply it to illiquid holdings like real estate.The proposal “is a breathtakingly terrible idea,” Sen. Pat Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, told the WSJ.President Trump’s aversion to regulation and his go-it-alone nationalism are wavering in the face of technology questions, Steve Lohr of the NYT reports.• “In September, the Trump administration abandoned its hands-off approach and began working closely with the 36-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to create international guidelines for the design and use of artificial intelligence.”• “The administration has also started to discuss a new law to protect privacy in the digital age, seeking consensus domestically and common ground internationally. It has fielded more than 200 public-comment filings from advocacy groups, corporations and individuals.”The administration has “moved from indifference to engagement,” Julie Brill, a former commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission who now helps oversee regulatory affairs for Microsoft, told Mr. Lohr.“The shift is a pragmatic recognition that regulations that will affect the nation’s tech industry and its citizens are coming, and that if federal officials want a say in them, they must participate,” Mr. Lohr writes.The race to give citizens superfast wireless data networks reached a conclusion yesterday. But there’s no clear consensus on which city is the world’s first to enjoy 5G, the WSJ reports.• “Verizon launched 5G wireless service in parts of Chicago and Minneapolis on Wednesday, a week ahead of its planned start date, while carriers in South Korea deployed their service in the Seoul metropolitan area the same day.”• “It is unclear which country struck first. South Korea’s large carriers, which had eyed a Friday start, hustled to switch on 5G services at 11 p.m. local time. Both SK Telecom Co. and KT Corp., the two largest operators, claimed to have the world’s first 5G smartphone subscribers. Verizon said its customers in those two cities were the first.”The development of 5G has become politically charged. America and China, in particular, see it as a means of asserting technological prowess. And the battle has entangled the Chinese telecom company Huawei, with America and others declaring its 5G hardware a risk to national security.Expect to hear more about the race.Condé Nast has hired Roger Lynch, the former chief executive of Pandora, as its new C.E.O.PG&E confirmed that it has appointed 10 new directors, including Nora Mead Brownell, a former commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulation Commission, and Jeffrey Bleich, a partner at the law firm Dentons.Zeina Bain, one of the Carlyle Group’s most senior female deal makers, has left for a competitor, ICG.Apple promoted its M.&A. chief, Adrian Perica, by having him report directly to Tim Cook instead of the company’s C.F.O.Deals• The radio giant iHeartMedia filed to go public yesterday, though it hasn’t decided between an I.P.O. and a Spotify-like direct share listing. (NYT)• Nearly 20 percent of Lyft’s shares have been lent to short-sellers as part of bets they’ll fall in price. It’s now the most expensive American stock to short. (DealBook, Business Insider)• SoftBank is reportedly in talks to raise $15 billion more for its Vision Fund. (Bloomberg)• The consulting firm Accenture agreed to buy Droga5, one of the big independent advertising agencies. (NYT)Politics and policy• The arrest of a Chinese national carrying malware at Mar-a-Lago shows how hard it is for a presidential home to double as a moneymaking business. (WaPo)• The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee formally requested six years of President Trump’s tax returns, while the House Intelligence Committee has asked for documents related to his inauguration. (NYT)• Senate Republicans resorted to the “nuclear option” of limiting debate on presidential nominations for federal courts and administrative posts to speed up confirmation of Mr. Trump’s picks. (NYT)• Some of Robert Mueller’s investigators have told associates that Attorney General William Barr’s summary of their findings underplayed troubling conclusions about President Trump. (NYT)Boeing• Ethiopian investigators said that the pilots of the Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed followed proper guidance. (NYT)• Some pilots said that Boeing should have provided more instructions for disabling the anti-stall software suspected in the two crashes. (WSJ)• The family of Ralph Nader’s niece, who was killed in the Ethiopian Airlines crash, plans to sue Boeing. (NYT)• Boeing hasn’t halted 737 Max production despite the global grounding of the Max 8 model. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May and the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, have begun talks to devise a Brexit deal that could garner cross-party support. (NYT)• Parliament passed a bill to force Mrs. May to seek a further delay to the process and avoid a no-deal Brexit. (FT)Tech• Tesla delivered 63,000 vehicles in the first quarter — fewer than expected and down 31 percent from the fourth quarter of 2018. (NYT)• A.I. experts have called on Amazon to stop selling its facial-recognition technology to law enforcement because it’s biased against women and people of color. (NYT)• Australia passed a law threatening huge fines for social media companies that fail to take down “abhorrent violent material” rapidly. (NYT)• MIT is cutting ties with the Chinese tech giants Huawei and ZTE over security risks. (FT)• Google will now require suppliers to provide their workers with benefits, including parental leave and minimum wages. (Wired)Best of the rest• Has the yield curve predicted the next recession — or are its warnings being overplayed? (FT)• Six women have sued Jones Day, one of the world’s largest law firms, for pregnancy and gender discrimination. (NYT)• A report by BlackRock says that investors underestimate extreme weather risks. (FT)• China’s stimulus plan might be working. (FT)• Much of the U.S. is experiencing a Japan-style decline in working-age residents. (Upshot)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" With “The Artist’s Way,” Julia Cameron invented the way people renovate the creative soul.Julia Cameron, making change at 70.CreditCreditRamsay de Give for The New York TimesSupported byBy Penelope GreenSANTA FE, N.M. — On any given day, someone somewhere is likely leading an Artist’s Way group, gamely knocking back the exercises of “The Artist’s Way” book, the quasi-spiritual manual for “creative recovery,” as its author Julia Cameron puts it, that has been a lodestar to blocked writers and other artistic hopefuls for more than a quarter of a century. There have been Artist’s Way clusters in the Australian outback and the Panamanian jungle; in Brazil, Russia, the United Kingdom and Japan; and also, as a cursory scan of Artist’s Way Meetups reveals, in Des Moines and Toronto. It has been taught in prisons and sober communities, at spiritual retreats and New Age centers, from Esalen to Sedona, from the Omega Institute to the Open Center, where Ms. Cameron will appear in late March, as she does most years. Adherents of “The Artist’s Way” include the authors Patricia Cornwell and Sarah Ban Breathnach. Pete Townshend, Alicia Keys and Helmut Newton have all noted its influence on their work.So has Tim Ferriss, the hyperactive productivity guru behind “The Four Hour Workweek,” though to save time he didn’t actually read the book, “which was recommended to me by many megaselling authors,” he writes. He just did the “Morning Pages,” one of the book’s central exercises. It requires you write three pages, by hand, first thing in the morning, about whatever comes to mind. (Fortunes would seem to have been made on the journals printed to support this effort.) The book’s other main dictum is the “Artist’s Date” — two hours of alone time each week to be spent at a gallery, say, or any place where a new experience might be possible. Elizabeth Gilbert, who has “done” the book three times, said there would be no “Eat, Pray, Love,” without “The Artist’s Way.” Without it, there might be no adult coloring books, no journaling fever. “Creativity” would not have its own publishing niche or have become a ubiquitous buzzword — the “fat-free” of the self-help world — and business pundits would not deploy it as a specious organizing principle.The book’s enduring success — over 4 million copies have been sold since its publication in 1992 — have made its author, a shy Midwesterner who had a bit of early fame in the 1970s for practicing lively New Journalism at the Washington Post and Rolling Stone, among other publications, and for being married, briefly, to Martin Scorsese, with whom she has a daughter, Domenica — an unlikely celebrity. With its gentle affirmations, inspirational quotes, fill-in-the-blank lists and tasks — write yourself a thank-you letter, describe yourself at 80, for example — “The Artist’s Way” proposes an egalitarian view of creativity: Everyone’s got it.The book promises to free up that inner artist in 12 weeks. It’s a template that would seem to reflect the practices of 12-step programs, particularly its invocations to a higher power. But according to Ms. Cameron, who has been sober since she was 29, “12 weeks is how long it takes for people to cook.”Now 70, she lives in a spare adobe house in Santa Fe, overlooking an acre of scrub and the Sangre de Cristo mountain range. She moved a few years ago from Manhattan, following an exercise from her book to list 25 things you love. As she recalled, “I wrote juniper, sage brush, chili, mountains and sky and I said, ‘This is not the Chrysler Building.’” On a recent snowy afternoon, Ms. Cameron, who has enormous blue eyes and a nimbus of blonde hair, admitted to the jitters before this interview. “I asked three friends to pray for me,” she said. “I also wrote a note to myself to be funny.” In the early 1970s, Ms. Cameron, who is the second oldest of seven children and grew up just north of Chicago, was making $67 a week working in the mail room of the Washington Post. At the same time, she was writing deft lifestyle pieces for the paper — like an East Coast Eve Babitz. “With a byline, no one knows you’re just a gofer,” she said. In her reporting, Ms. Cameron observed an epidemic of green nail polish and other “Cabaret”-inspired behaviors in Beltway bars, and slyly reviewed a new party drug, methaqualone. She was also, by her own admission, a blackout drunk. “I thought drinking was something you did and your friends told you about it later,” she said. “In retrospect, in cozy retrospect, I was in trouble from my first drink.”She met Mr. Scorsese on assignment for Oui magazine and fell hard for him. She did a bit of script-doctoring on “Taxi Driver,” and followed the director to Los Angeles. “I got pregnant on our wedding night,” she said. “Like a good Catholic girl.” When Mr. Scorsese took up with Liza Minnelli while all three were working on “New York, New York,” the marriage was done. (She recently made a painting depicting herself as a white horse and Mr. Scorsese as a lily. “I wanted to make a picture about me and Marty,” she said. “He was magical-seeming to me and when I look at it I think, ‘Oh, she’s fascinated, but she doesn’t understand.’”)In her memoir, “Floor Sample,” published in 2006, Ms. Cameron recounts the brutality of Hollywood, of her life there as a screenwriter and a drunk. Pauline Kael, she writes, described her as a “pornographic Victorian valentine, like a young Angela Lansbury.” Don’t marry her for tax reasons, Ms. Kael warns Mr. Scorsese. Andy Warhol, who escorts her to the premiere of “New York, New York,” inscribes her into his diary as a “lush.” A cocaine dealer soothes her — “You have a tiny little wife’s habit” — and a doctor shoos her away from his hospital when she asks for help, telling her she’s no alcoholic, just a “sensitive young woman.” She goes into labor in full makeup and a Chinese dressing gown, vowing to be “no trouble.”“I think it’s fair to say that drinking and drugs stopped looking like a path to success,” she said. “So I luckily stopped. I had a couple of sober friends and they said, ‘Try and let the higher power write through you.’ And I said, What if he doesn’t want to?’ They said, ‘Just try it.’”So she did. She wrote novels and screenplays. She wrote poems and musicals. She wasn’t always well-reviewed, but she took the knocks with typical grit, and she schooled others to do so as well. “I have unblocked poets, lawyers and painters,” she said. She taught her tools in living rooms and classrooms — “if someone was dumb enough to lend us one,” she said — and back in New York, at the Feminist Art Institute. Over the years, she refined her tools, typed them up, and sold Xeroxed copies in local bookstores for $20. It was her second husband, Mark Bryan, a writer, who needled her into making the pages into a proper book. The first printing was about 9,000 copies, said Joel Fotinos, formerly the publisher at Tarcher/Penguin, which published the book in 1992. There was concern that it wouldn’t sell. “Part of the reason,” Mr. Fotinos said, “was that this was a book that wasn’t like anything else. We didn’t know where to put it on the shelves — did it go in religion or self-help? Eventually there was a category called ‘creativity,’ and ‘The Artist’s Way’ launched it.” Now an editorial director at St. Martin’s Press, Mr. Fotinos said he is deluged with pitches from authors claiming they’ve written “the new Artist’s Way.” “But for Julia, creativity was a tool for survival,” he said. “It was literally her medicine and that’s why the book is so authentic, and resonates with so many people.” “I am my tool kits,” Ms. Cameron said. And, indeed, “The Artist’s Way” is stuffed with tools: worksheets to be filled with thoughts about money, childhood games, old hurts; wish lists and exercises, many of which seem exhaustive and exhausting — “Write down any resistance, angers and fears,” e.g. — and others that are more practical: “Take a 20 minutes walk,” “Mend any mending” and “repot any pinched and languishing plants.” It anticipates the work of the indefatigable Gretchen Rubin, the happiness maven, if Ms. Rubin were a bit kinder but less Type-A.“When I teach, it’s like watching the lights come on,” said Ms. Cameron. “My students don’t get lectured to. I think they feel safe. Rather than try and fix themselves, they learn to accept themselves. I think my work makes people autonomous. I feel like people fall in love with themselves.” Anne Lamott, the inspirational writer and novelist, said that when she was teaching writing full-time, her own students swore by “The Artist’s Way.” “That exercise — three pages of automatic writing — was a sacrament for people,” Ms. Lamott wrote in a recent email. “They could plug into something bigger than the rat exercise wheel of self-loathing and grandiosity that every writer experiences: ‘This could very easily end up being an Oprah Book,’ or ‘Who do I think I’m fooling? I’m a subhuman blowhard.’”“She’s given you an assignment that is doable, and I think it’s kind of a cognitive centering device. Like scribbly meditation,” Ms. Lamott wrote. “It’s sort of like how manicurists put smooth pebbles in the warm soaking water, so your fingers have something to do, and you don’t climb the walls.”Ms. Cameron continues to write her Morning Pages every day, even though she continues, as she said, to be grouchy upon awakening. She eats oatmeal at a local cafe and walks Lily, an eager white Westie. She reads no newspapers, or social media (perhaps the most grueling tenet of “The Artist’s Way” is a week of “reading deprivation”), though an assistant runs a Twitter and Instagram account on her behalf. She writes for hours, mostly musicals, collaborating with her daughter, a film director, and others. Ms. Cameron may be a veteran of the modern self-care movement but her life has not been all moonbeams and rainbows, and it shows. She was candid in conversation, if not quite at ease. “So I haven’t proven myself to be hilarious,” she said with a flash of dry humor, adding that even after so many years, she still gets stage-fright before beginning a workshop.She has written about her own internal critic, imagining a gay British interior designer she calls Nigel. “And nothing is ever good enough for Nigel,” she said. But she soldiers on. She will tell you that she has good boundaries. But like many successful women, she brushes off her achievements, attributing her unlooked-for wins to luck.“If you have to learn how to do a movie, you might learn from Martin Scorsese. If you have to learn about entrepreneurship, you might learn from Mark” — her second husband. “So I’m very lucky,” she said. “If I have a hard time blowing my own horn, I’ve been attracted to people who blew it for me.”Penelope Green is a reporter for Styles. She has been a reporter for the Home section, editor of Styles of The Times — an early iteration of Styles — and a story editor at the Times magazine.  @greenpnyt • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.Negotiations between Washington and Beijing seemed to be in a precarious place on Tuesday, after the FT reported that the Trump administration had canceled meetings with Chinese vice ministers.The officials had offered to come to Washington to prepare for meetings scheduled later this month between China’s trade czar, Liu He, and the U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, the FT said.Larry Kudlow, the head of the National Economic Council, denied the report to CNBC. He added that negotiations would only be successful if the Chinese honored their commitments:“Promises are great but enforcement is what we want — things like deadlines and timetables and full coverage of the various structural issues. Will this all be solved at the end of the month? I don’t know. I wouldn’t dare to predict.”China may agree to buy up to seven million tons of American wheat. But Chinese officials are reportedly chafing at U.S. requests for regular reviews of changes to their trade policies. And two influential American business groups still see reason to be unhappy, saying China is engaged in “a deep, concerted and continuing effort” to establish dominance in technologies such as robotics and electric vehicles.Beijing is also trying to play down Belt and Road, its vast infrastructure initiative spanning Asia, Europe and Africa: Senior government officials have avoided the topic at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, the NYT reports.The effects of trade tensions continue to spread. The stock market started the year strong but sputtered on Tuesday. Japan’s exports last month sank the most in more than two years. Chinese finance officials promised more stimulus. Experts are predicting that “the good times are over” for American companies reliant on Chinese consumers.But not everyone is complaining: Lobbyists have enjoyed a surge of business from companies and trade groups hoping to influence the Trump administration’s tariff decisions. Indonesia’s doing all right, too: Its industry minister says it’s exporting more steel to the U.S. and also attracting Chinese textile and footwear companies.Other Chinese news: The founder of a Nanjing-based meat supplier, one of several Chinese executives at Hong Kong-listed companies who have mysteriously disappeared in recent years, returned to his family. Several Chinese companies are circling Japan’s largest operator of oyster restaurants.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in Davos, Switzerland; Stephen Grocer in New York; and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The Senate descended from the spectator stands to plan two competing votes to fund the government on Thursday. One involves President Trump’s latest proposal: $5.7 billion for a border wall, now accompanied by temporary protections for certain immigrants. The other, from the Democrats, would open the government until Feb. 8.But neither is expected to draw the 60 votes needed to advance. This means that the Trump administration is likely to continue as a one-ring circus, focused on the wall to the exclusion of other presidential duties.Here are ways the shutdown is still straining the system:• Reserve security workers are being flown into airports, because as many as one in 10 transportation security officers are failing to show up for work.• Delays in reports about home sales, construction, trade and manufacturing threaten to create a data vacuum, just as the economy may be slowing down.• SNAP food stamps help feed some 40 million Americans. The Agriculture Department is still considering how to keep the program running after February.• The U.S. court system will need to close after Feb. 1 if the stalemate continues.And a sidelight on the wall proposal: Details disclosed at the trial of the drug lord known as El Chapo suggests it wouldn’t have inconvenienced him very much.Analysts and bankers at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, offered a glass-half-full attitude toward the global economy, saying it was weakening but not entering a recession. “We’re slowing, but we’re still growing,” said Philipp Hildebrand, vice chairman of the investment manager BlackRock.But behind the brave face, concerns of political paralysis, frayed trading partnerships and working-class resentment created a nervous atmosphere.Another theme was the growing discomfort with corporate influence over society. Nowhere was this tension greater than in the conversation around Big Tech. Optimism in official sessions appeared to be out of touch with the public’s concern about the technology’s disruptive effects on privacy and politics.Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, made a surprise appearance and was seen with Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan of Armenia. But talk was dominated by who wasn’t there, most notably President Trump.Instead, President Jair Bolsonaro of Brazil has been present to take up the populist mantle, the NYT’s Mark Landler writes, promising to root out corruption, roll back regulations and make his country a good place to do business:Mr. Bolsonaro’s keynote address set the tone for a Davos gathering shorn of its usual retinue of American and European leaders, wrestling with political forces, from Latin America to Europe, that are starkly at odds with this conference’s ethos of global cooperation and a liberal world order.Dyson, the British appliances company founded by a vocal supporter of Brexit, swears that its decision to move to Singapore is not a reaction to Britain’s planned departure from the E.U.But with one proposed exit plan summarily rejected and the prospect of a delayed divorce, the temptation to jump ship to calmer, more business-friendly waters is growing.Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition Labour Party, has asked for a parliamentary vote on whether to hold a second referendum on Brexit.Brexit could hit European consumers hard, Kasper Rorsted, the chief executive of the German sportswear maker Adidas, told CNBC. And the E.U. says trade rules would require a “hard border” between Ireland and British-controlled Northern Ireland if Britain leaves without a deal.Germany and France are still keen to show their commitment to a united Europe: Chancellor Angela Merkel and President Emmanuel Macron met on Tuesday to renew a 1963 treaty on the subject.Desktop Metal announced today that it had closed a $160 million funding round to expand the production of its office-friendly metal 3D-printing technology.The funding round was led by Koch Disruptive Technologies, the investing and innovation arm of Koch Industries, and brings Desktop Metal’s total investment to $438 million. In a news release, the company declared this to be the moment when 3D printing begins to disrupt traditional metal manufacturing.“We are at a critical juncture in the advancement of metal 3D printing and additive manufacturing,” said Ric Fulop, a co-founder and the chief executive of Desktop Metal, which is based in Burlington, Mass.The production system is the fastest metal printing press for mass production, the company said, and will begin shipping commercially in the first quarter of 2019.Justin Gmelich, chief operating officer of Goldman Sachs and one of the most senior executives in the bank’s fixed income business, is retiring. (FT)Bunge, the world’s largest oilseed processor, appointed Gregory Heckman acting chief executive, replacing Soren Schroder, who agreed to leave in December. (FT)Deals• Two activist hedge funds are calling on eBay to consider spinning off or selling StubHub and a classified-ad businesses. (WSJ)• Arconic said it would not sell itself to the private equity firm Apollo Global Management. (WSJ)• In its most significant move into streaming, the cable giant Viacom is paying $340 million for PlutoTV, an advertising-based service. (NYT)• Shares of PG&E surged after it said it had secured $5.5 billion in financing as it prepares to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. (Reuters)• BAE Systems won a $474 million U.S. defense contract, the Pentagon said. (Reuters)Tech • The former Soviet republic of Georgia has been offering tax breaks, land deals and cheap energy to lure cryptocurrency businesses. (NYT)• Tencent, the Chinese tech company, lost a third of its value last year. (FT)• IBM said its revenue fell 3.5 percent in the fourth quarter, better than analysts expected but still a sign of challenges ahead. (WSJ)• Japan Display, a supplier for Apple’s iPhone XR, is seeking a bailout from an investor group from China and Taiwan. (WSJ)• Silicon Valley start-ups and their investors fear the days of unchecked growth may be over. (WSJ)• Google and Facebook spent record amounts on lobbying governments last year. (Reuters)Politics and policy • President Trump has turned out to be the one thing that Mitch McConnell, the Senate Republican leader, can’t control. (NYT)• Mike Pompeo, the secretary of state, said he expected further progress in North Korea denuclearization talks, but acknowledged “an awful lot of work to do.” (Reuters)• The Supreme Court permitted the Trump administration to bar most transgender people from serving in the military while courts review the policy. (NYT)Best of the rest • 23andMe, the DNA testing company, said it had received regulatory approval to offer a test for a hereditary colorectal cancer syndrome. (Bloomberg)• How companies game their ratings on Glassdoor, a site that lets people review their employers. (WSJ)• Carl Rogberg, a former senior director of the supermarket chain Tesco, was acquitted today of fraud and false accounting charges. (Reuters)• Walgreens will pay $269.2 million to settle accusations that it improperly billed Medicare, Medicaid and other federal programs for more than a decade. (Reuters)• McKinsey has been repeatedly accused of misconduct in bankruptcy cases, most recently in a case that could cost it tens of millions of dollars in returned fees. (NYT)• Home sales fell last month to their lowest level since 2015, pressured by stock market volatility, the government shutdown and higher interest rates. (WSJ)• BlackRock is planning a money-market fund that will invest primarily in debt from environmentally conscious issuers. (Reuters)• A spate of quarterly earnings this week from industrial and technology companies could disrupt the relative calm in the stock market. (WSJ)• Construction is set to start on a $500 billion futuristic city in Saudi Arabia’s Neom Bay, financed by the government, its sovereign wealth fund and local and international investors. (Bloomberg)• Production at Subaru’s only car factory in Japan could be shut down for nearly two weeks to fix a suspected defect in a single part. (Reuters)• Eric Salama, the chief executive of the marketing firm Kantar, is recovering after being stabbed in an attempted carjacking in London. (Bloomberg)• The cost of insulin for treating type 1 diabetes nearly doubled over five years in the U.S. (Reuters)• The Labor Department accused Oracle of wage discrimination by funneling women and minorities into lower-paying roles and setting their initial pay based on prior salary. (CNBC)• The Federal Reserve is beginning to examine how Deutsche Bank handled billions of dollars in suspect transactions from Denmark’s leading lender. (Bloomberg)• To survive a pilot shortage, airlines are doubling starting salaries and recruiting from military helicopter crews. (Reuters)• The pharmaceutical industry’s main trade group spent a record $27.5 million on lobbying last year. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Thursday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBefore 1919, the music was considered more novelty than art. Then a military band changed everything.By David SagerMr. Sager is a research assistant at the Library of Congress and a jazz historian.The Armistice to end World War I brought elation and a sense of relief to millions of Americans, but also a jolt of reality. The country had only been in the conflict for 19 months, but it had already adjusted to the rhythms and strictures of a society on a total-war footing. When it ended so abruptly, the result was a sudden permissiveness in the culture, a weakening of social rules and an opening for new ideas, creating a fertile atmosphere for America’s new, unruly musical child: jazz. What was jazz? It had no real definition; it referred to many things. The year 1919 is usually not considered an important marker on the jazz timeline, but that year subtle yet compelling forces took hold that would turn this invasive novelty into something with far more clarity and promise as an art form. It was the year jazz came into its own.Feb. 17, 1919, was a cold, overcast New York day that threatened snow. Tens of thousands of people had come to the streets of Manhattan for a victory parade. At the corner of Fifth Ave. 60th Street, a crowd packed the sidewalks and clustered onto a grandstand, vying for a glimpse of the returning heroes parading northward. Along the route marched the 369th Infantry, a highly decorated all-black regiment that had just returned from a year in France. The Germans, whom they flushed from their trenches, called them “blutdürstige schwarze Männer,” or “bloodthirsty black men” — or more respectfully, “Hellfighters.” The French government gave the unit the Croix de Guerre for its bravery.On cue, the cheering crowd fell into an abrupt hush, as line upon line of soldiers appeared, proceeding in immaculate precision. “For a moment there was almost complete silence, as the throngs of men and women gazed upon the dark-skinned warriors who had beaten the best regiments of veterans the enemy could send them,” wrote The New York Tribune. Nearly all accounts of the parade singled out the 369th’s band, under the direction of Lt. James Reese Europe, an immensely successful and well-known African-American musician. The press consistently referred to them as a “jazz band,” whose “jazz music” had become the sensation of France. Even Gen. Henri Gouraud, a staid and dignified French commander, was enthralled, and made his headquarters wherever the band was stationed. Lieutenant Europe was already known as the “Jazz King.”Such praise marked the first time anything associated with jazz had received such glowing approval. In 1919, jazz, or “jass,” as some still called it, was a peculiar word with musical and sexual connotations. It could be noun, verb or adjective, indicating pep, liveliness and noise. Jazz was the new counterculture dance music replacing ragtime — but more dangerous, disorderly and discordant, consisting of random, wrong-sounding musical obstreperousness and percussive turmoil. The music had been considered a scourge on polite society, particularly by whites, even if many of them had no idea what the word meant. Now, thousands — both white and black — cheered Europe’s “jazz” band.They kept the “jazz music” under wraps at first. Marching along, Europe kept his men reined in, playing dignified military music, matching the solemnity and discipline of the moment. But as they passed 60th Street, where the crowd became more and more densely populated with African-Americans, the band let loose with “That Moaning Trombone” and other syncopated numbers. Verve and enthusiasm stood in bold relief. James Reese Europe was born in 1881 in Mobile, Ala., and raised in Washington, D.C., where he studied violin, piano and composition. In 1903, he relocated to New York, seeking work as a musical director and composer. There he associated with the black musical cognoscenti of Manhattan, including Bert Williams, J. Rosamond Johnson and Bob Cole. He became New York society’s favorite band leader, charming the likes of the Vanderbilts, and was musical director for Vernon and Irene Castle, a popular pair of white dancers. Along the way he mentored a string of future musical stars, like Noble Sissle and Eubie Blake.Although historians often associate Europe with ragtime and jazz, his focus was on neither. He wanted to create music that he believed reflected the artistic temperament and souls of African-Americans, whatever style it took, and to use it to promote the validity and viability of Negro musicians.In 1910 he formed the Clef Club, a union for New York’s black musicians, along with the enormous Clef Club Symphony Orchestra, which emphasized instruments that he felt were commonly used by black musicians: banjo, mandolin, bandora and harp guitar. In interviews, Europe avoided the word “ragtime,” simply calling it “Negro music.” The orchestra performed lavish concerts — several at Carnegie Hall — featuring works by black composers like Will Marion Cook, William H. Tyers and Europe himself. It played marches, concert pieces, tangos and waltzes, with a sprinkling of ragtime.Europe’s reputation as a purveyor of ragtime and “proto jazz” is based on recordings made in 1913 and 1914. Of these, “Castle House Rag,” a Europe composition, captures our imagination today, offering a rare glimpse into black dance music, partly read and partly played by ear. Exciting and edgy, it has hints of “Shortenin’ Bread” and what might be described as “country ragtime.” Few who heard Europe’s music were acquainted with the dance music then brewing in New Orleans, which some regarded as “ragtime played by ear.” Because it went largely unrecorded during the 1910s, it would be years before the rest of the country could hear the rhythmic drive and hot quality of its pioneers, like King Oliver, Freddie Keppard and Jelly Roll Morton. One exception was the Original Dixieland Jazz Band, who made a recording in 1917 that was listened to from California to New York. Many musicians tried to copy their seemingly discordant approach, and failed. Most couldn’t hear, beneath that mélange, the band’s harmonic and rhythmic order, spontaneous sounding counterpoint and interlocking parts. Musicians copied the effects — the musical veneer. Capturing musical essence was a far more complex task than aping the obvious.And yet 1919 was the year when that began to change. In March, the Original Dixieland Jazz Band sailed for England, to tour British theaters. While there, they rerecorded a number of their old hits, along with two waltzes, unlikely choices for a New Orleans jazz band. Still, those recordings, “Alice Blue Gown” and “I’m Forever Blowing Bubbles,” have the propulsion and lilt that characterized New Orleans. More and more people, far outside New Orleans, were suddenly hearing, and enjoying, jazz.As they did, New York bands began to get the swing of the music. In March 1919, a group from Coney Island called the Original Memphis Five emerged with a streamlined version of the Original Dixieland Jazz Band’s style. They made hundreds of recordings between 1921 and 1929. Nineteen-nineteen was also the year that a young cornetist named Louis Armstrong, who had been electrifying patrons of New Orleans saloons and honky-tonks with his distinctive sound, began to set his sights beyond his hometown. Armstrong possessed a rare gift for fusing disparate types of music that moved him — he had command over the passion of blues, excitement of ragtime, and the poignancy of operatic and classical melodies. His was the unnamed music of New Orleans: organic, confident and sincere. Playing on Mississippi riverboats, his horn was heard for the first time outside of New Orleans. Inevitably, young musicians like the trombonist Jack Teagarden and the cornetist Bix Beiderbecke heard Armstrong; within a few years, both of these young men would emerge as jazz originals in their own right.Armstrong had received much of his early experience working in the band led by trombonist Edward Ory, known as Kid. Ory's contribution to early jazz was in creating one of the most fundamental voices of the jazz band: a style known as “tailgate trombone,” which became the model for most that followed. Ory left New Orleans in August 1919 for California. He soon settled in Oakland, leading a fine jazz band at the Creole Café. In the summer of 1922, Ory’s band would become the first black New Orleans jazz band to make recordings.Armstrong’s mentor, Joe Oliver, moved to Chicago in 1917. By 1919 he was one of the busiest musicians in town, giving Chicago a taste of the Crescent City’s hot music. In 1922 he sent for Armstrong to join his Creole Jazz Band as the second cornetist. The 1923 King Oliver recordings would spread New Orleans music — some called it “jazz” — throughout the land. On the very day of the 369th’s parade, 2,900 miles to the west, a struggling dance orchestra leader named Paul Whiteman was recovering from a nervous breakdown. A violinist formerly with the San Francisco Symphony, Whiteman had become fascinated with the sensuous, unpolished sounds he heard from musicians in Barbary Coast saloons. He attempted to notate this strange music, orchestrate it and normalize it. Hiring the best “jazzers” in town, Whiteman formed a dance band to play at the Fairmont Hotel. Taxed by overworked and worry, he collapsed, and soon left music, and San Francisco, behind.But he didn’t stay gone. Whiteman moved east, in 1920, and drew national attention when he signed a contract with the Victor Talking Machine Company. Striving to “make a lady” of jazz led to his fabulous 1924 concert “An Experiment in Modern Music,” which premiered Gershwin’s “Rhapsody in Blue.” Whiteman became known as the “King of Jazz,” a moniker which — while he never took it literally — served him well. He went on to hire Frank Trumbauer, Beiderbecke and others, a dream team of young jazz musicians. By the mid-1920s, jazz was firmly in place as the reigning American popular music style.All that was in the future as Europe and the 369th wrapped up their parade through Manhattan. Soon afterward they were mustered out of the service. For most, there was no question what they would do next: Reforming the band as civilians, they set out to tour the East Coast and Midwest. According to a review of their show in Philadelphia, The Evening Bulletin wrote: “Many ragtime, jazz time and popular air tunes were played with a swing, a swerve and a tempo that lifted the soul as well as the feet of the listener and carried him away to the Land of Shuffling Feet.”Though they were praised for their jazz, Europe and his band ranged widely. He typically programmed light classical overtures, specialties like “Evolution of Dixie,” some ragtime, and medleys of syncopated hits under the rubric “A Potpourri of Jazz.” A recording of a medley they often played on the road, “Plantation Echoes,” contains not a speck of jazz, or ragtime, by anyone’s definition. But the crowds demanded jazz, and Europe gave it to them — not only on the stage, but in interviews, where he tried to explain this new form. As he told The Newark Evening Ledger, “Lots of people think jazz is easy. It’s as hard as anything. The French bandmasters thought we had trick instruments. They’d ask to examine our instruments and then cry in surprise ‘Meme que les autres’ — ‘The same as the others.’ You see we get those special effects with a roll of the tongue and blowing the instrument about twice as hard as usual.”Europe’s comments reflected commonly held beliefs about jazz: It was about effects, such as distorting the embouchure to produce fluttering effects. Europe was a master tactician, and provided good copy.The band’s recording of “Memphis Blues” illustrates their approach to jazz. The final minute displays many of the effects Europe described: crying clarinets, flutter-tongued cornets, trombone glissandos and a “shave and a haircut” ending. There is one exception: a surprise solo “break” by a trombonist who tosses off an insouciant, swinging phrase.That break, only two measures long, speaks volumes: a rarity on such an early recording, signifying the exciting nature of jazz as it was still maturing.On May 9, 1919, the band arrived in Boston, to perform at Mechanic’s Hall. Europe, suffering from a cold and exhaustion, courageously pushed himself through the concert’s first half. During intermission, an altercation erupted when a disgruntled musician entered Europe’s dressing room and attacked him with a penknife. The injury, which seemed at first superficial, was anything but. Europe died a few hours later.  In a flash, James Reese Europe was gone, the band broke up, and postwar excitement and acceptance for jazz were temporarily forgotten. Nevertheless, Europe’s final testament had a lasting legacy. During that final tour, a wide range of Americans had begun to realize that jazz was something of which they could be proud. Photos from the parade, with jazz-playing musicians surrounded by returning soldiers, made it clear that this was a homegrown, even patriotic, art form. The old notion about “jazzing” suddenly seemed quaint. “Jazz” had become a noun.Europe’s dream, to see African-Americans accepted as serious and respected performers, lived on through his two closest associates, Noble Sissle and Eubie Blake. Their 1921 Broadway hit “Shuffle Along” was in a sense, a tribute to their mentor and friend.Looking at 1919 from both sides of a timeline clarifies how pivotal this year was for jazz. On one side there was the diligent, focused work of James Reese Europe, which brought dignity to both African-American musicians and jazz. On the other, Paul Whiteman continued his work legitimizing jazz in the public’s mind. In the middle were the pioneers of the art: Louis Armstrong, his mentors and disciples.Encompassing a span of a decade in a single year, 1919 was the fulcrum of momentous musical activity when jazz — in many forms and many definitions — was nurtured, whether by Europe, Whiteman or the growing number of jazz musicians who understood it.David Sager is a research assistant in the Recorded Sound Research Center at the Library of Congress and a Grammy-nominated jazz historian and jazz trombonist.Further Reading (and listening): Louis Armstrong, “Louis Armstrong in his own Words,” ed. by Thomas Brothers; Reid Badger, “A Life in Ragtime: A Biography of James Reese Europe;” John McCusker, “Creole Trombone: Kid Ory and the Early Years of Jazz”; Tim Brooks, “Lost Sounds: Blacks and the Birth of the Recording Industry, 1890-1919;” H.O. Brunn, “The Story of the Original Dixieland Jazz Band;” “James Reese Europe with his 369th U.S. Infantry “Hellfighters” Band: The Complete Recordings,” Memphis Archive, MA7020 (compact disc); “Original Dixieland Jazz Band: The First Jazz Recordings, 1917-192,” Timeless CBC1-009 (compact disc); Don Rayno, “Paul Whiteman: Pioneer in American Music;” David Sager, “King Oliver Off the Record: The Complete 1923 Jazz Band Recordings,” Off the Record — ARCH-OTR — MM6-C2 (liner notes for compact disc); “The Product of Our Souls: the Sound and Sway of James Reese Europe’s Society Orchestra,” Archeophone Records, ARCH 6010 (compact disc).The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byExplore the cities, countries, regions and states in Travel’s “52 Places to Go in 2019” through these books. By The EditorsIn an interview earlier this year, The Times’s new 52 places traveler, Sebastian Modak, questioned whether he would have to give up his “physical books and buy a Kindle” as he traveled to 52 places in 2019. His response: “Probably.” He also wondered whether he would “even have time to read books.” His answer: “Probably not.”But for those of you planning to follow in his footsteps to one or two of those places, time may be more in your favor. So here are some reading suggestions — fiction and nonfiction, essays, poems — that may help you to better explore those cities, countries, regions and states. Let us know what you think. Feeling inspired? Send a photo of the book you’re reading on your travels to books@nytimes.com. No. 1 Puerto RicoSantiago’s memoir of growing up in Puerto Rico before moving to Brooklyn with her family and eventually ending up at Harvard is a staple on middle school, high school and college reading lists. Readers will admire Santiago’s “vivid, poignant writing.”No. 2 Hampi, IndiaThis historical book of fiction involves the present-day discovery of a 16th-century courtier’s diary in the Indian west coast town of Honnavar.No. 3 Santa Barbara, Calif.Millar’s psychological thriller is centered around the untimely death of the young daughter of wealthy Californian landowners. No. 4 Panama“Trust David McCullough to come up with a chunk of history so full of giant‐sized characters and so rich in political skulduggery, financial scheming technological innovation and medical pioneering that by the end of his telling of it he has us convinced that the digging of the canal was symbolic of the entire Western era between the Franco‐Prussian War and the outbreak of World War I.”Read Our ReviewNo. 5 Munich, Germany“Harris’s meticulously researched and expertly paced thriller, ‘Munich,’ recounts the days leading up to the ill-fated agreement,” or the Munich accord, which symbolized false hopes and Nazi duplicity in the countdown to World War II. Read Our ReviewNo. 6 Eilat, Israel“Skillfully translated by Sondra Silverston, ‘Waking Lions’ is a sophisticated and darkly ambitious novel, revealing an aspect of Israeli life rarely seen in its literature.”Read Our ReviewNo. 7 Setouchi Islands, Japan“‘Pachinko’ chronicles four generations of an ethnic Korean family, first in Japanese-occupied Korea in the early 20th century, then in Japan itself from the years before World War II to the late 1980s.Read Our ReviewNo. 8 Aalborg, DenmarkThis is the first in the Danish author’s Department Q series featuring Copenhagen detective Carl Morck from the cold cases division. Read Our Review of the Latest Book in the SeriesNo. 9 The Azores, Portugal“Saudade is a Portuguese word with no direct translation that conveys a deep longing for something that perhaps never was and yet may never come again. It suggests a melancholy satisfaction.” Marcum captures the elusive nature of this word that “is central to understanding the Portuguese spirit, and more specifically the Azorean one.”Read Our ReviewNo. 10 Ontario Ice Caves, CanadaIn telling a grim tale of how climate change, overpopulation and invasive species destabilizes a sensitive ecosystem, Egan “nimbly splices together history, science, reporting and personal experiences into a taut and cautiously hopeful narrative.”Read Our ReviewNo. 11 Zadar and nearby islands, Croatia“With fables and allegories, as well as events borrowed from the headlines, Obreht illustrates the complexities of Balkan history, unearthing patterns of suspicion, superstition and everyday violence that pervade the region even in times of peace.”Read Our ReviewNo. 12 Williamsburg, Va.“This book is aimed at a mass audience, driven by anecdote and statistic, memoir and photograph, with all the giants of American history in their respective places.”Read Our ReviewNo. 13 Las Vegas“Vegas” is “a semi-autobiographical book about a sojourn in that city” and the types of people who live there. It is “a fine, wry, perceptive, graceful book that does as much for the dark side of the American fun house as Hunter Thompson's ‘Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas’ did for the manic side.” Read Our ReviewNo. 14 Salvador, BrazilThe Brazilian writer Amado loved Salvador. His “exuberant spirit, aesthetic and characters seem to permeate the streets of the place he described both as ‘the most mysterious and beautiful of the world’s cities.’” For visitors, he “went so far as to suggest an itinerary in his novel, ‘Tereza Batista.’” He wanted tourists to see every element of the city from its beaches and churches to its festivals and whorehouses. No. 15 Danang, VietnamThe narrator of this debut novel is a Vietnamese live-in cook working for Alice B. Toklas and Gertrude Stein in Paris. “He concocts both Vietnamese delicacies and American apple pie, evoking memories for the household with the intensity of Proust's madeleine and adding an exotic spice for poignancy.”Read Our ReviewNo. 16 Costalegre, MexicoEsquivel, a Mexican novelist, uses magical realism to tell the story of the youngest daughter of the De La Garza family in turn-of-the-century Mexico, who expresses her hopes and sadness through her cooking. No. 17 Paparoa Track, New ZealandThis first volume of the autobiography of the novelist and poet Janet Frame focuses on her early life in New Zealand. “It is a wistful tale, honestly and believably told, of the puzzling encounters of childhood, the recognitions, the gain and the loss.” Read Our ReviewNo. 18 Puglia, ItalyGray’s 1986 autobiography, “Honey From a Weed,” turned her into a cult figure for her “artful compilation of memories, recipes and traveler’s tales” in Italy. In his biography of Gray, Federman has “created a fully formed character … honoring not only her brilliance but the rough edges that made her human.”Read Our ReviewNo. 19 Tatra Mountains, Slovakia“In ‘Zoli,’ a novel about the Gypsies of Eastern Europe, McCann imagines a deeper, darker watchword for this immemorially wandering and persecuted people: to be understood, even in part, is to be violated and destroyed.”Read Our ReviewNo. 20 Calgary, Canada“Medicine River,"" which chronicles the lives of a group of contemporary First Nations in Western Canada, is set in a small town in Alberta that borders a Blackfoot reserve. “This most satisfying novel ends as it should, not in a clash of cymbals, but with the brushes laid quietly against the drums for a beat or so after the music ends.”Read Our ReviewNo. 21 Olkhon Island, Lake Baikal, RussiaIn this book, Thomson “investigates the biochemistry behind the myth” that Lake Baikal “water purifies itself.” And in so doing, Thomson has created a “superb paean to a unique and bizarre ecosystem.” Read Our ReviewNo. 22 Huntsville, Ala.Although NASA engineer Hickam’s “Rocket Boys” is mostly a memoir about his childhood in West Virginia, the book does a terrific job of telling the story of a group of men who dreamed of launching rockets into outer space. As such it’s a great book to read when you are in or traveling to the Rocket City. Read Our ReviewNo. 23 Falkland IslandsStevens accepts a travel fellowship to the Falkland Islands, where she writes her memoir, tracing “the fits and starts of the writing process and shares some hard-won insight,” including this: “‘Surrounded by people, it is easy to feel alone,’ she writes. ‘Surrounded by penguins, less so.’”Read Our ReviewNo. 24 Aberdeen, ScotlandSet in Aberdeen, “Black and Blue” is the eighth book in Ian Rankin’s Inspector Rebus series. The novel “was a turning point in his career, selling four times as many copies as the previous Rebuses.” Rankin is “one of Scotland's most popular authors, along with Irvine Walsh, Iain Banks and, of course, J.K. Rowling.”No. 25 Golfo Paradiso, ItalyThis 1922 novel is the story of four women from England, who are all strangers to one another. They come together for a monthlong vacation in April at a villa on Italy’s Mediterranean coast near Portofino. No. 26 Dessau, GermanyAlthough the Bauhaus, a German school of art, “lasted only from 1919 to 1933, and was forced to move from historic Weimar to industrial Dessau and then Berlin, always facing opposition, it produced worldwide changes in the arts and crafts it addressed.” The section on Walter Gropius, the founder of Bauhaus, is especially colorful. Read Our Review No. 27 TunisThis Highsmith novel, which some would say is her best, is about an American writer who becomes an “unwitting accomplice to a murder in Tunisia. The author’s ‘dry simplicity,’ said one reviewer in 1969, ‘conceals a labyrinthine complexity it is a challenge and a pleasure to untangle.’”No. 28 GambiaThis coming-of-age debut novel is the coming-of-age story of an 18-year-old Gambian woman debating her choice of suitors and what path her life will take depending on who she chooses.No. 29 Northern Rivers, New South Wales, Australia“This unflinching novel — loosely based on Grenville’s family history — explores modern Australia’s origins through the tale of William Thornhill, a Thames boatman and petty thief who is banished with his wife to New South Wales in 1806.”No. 30 Frisian Islands (Netherlands, Germany, Denmark)Childers’s “The Riddle of the Sands,” which was published in 1903, deals with the discovery of a planned secret German naval invasion of Britain. It is a classic early example of the espionage novel, and it takes place in the North Frisian Islands. No. 31 New York City“The Invisible Man” was published in 1952. The narrator is an unnamed African-American living in New York City in the 1930s. In the novel, Ellison grapples with man’s search for identity and place in society. A review in The Times called Ellison “an author who uses words with great skill, who writes with poetic intensity and immense narrative drive.”Read Our ReviewNo. 32, Chongli, China“China in Ten Words” is a collection of essays in which Yu Hua “depicts a morally compromised nation, plagued by escalating unemployment, class polarization and endemic corruption and waste. At the extremes, peasants traverse the land selling their blood to the highest bidder while multimillionaires build mansions that are replicas of the White House.”Read our reviewNo. 33 Orcas Island, Wash.Guterson's “finely wrought and flawlessly written first novel"" looks at World War II’s “terrible toll on the human spirit” and the racial intolerance of Japanese-Americans that was “present even before the war.” The novel revolves around a murder trial on a fictional island in Puget Sound in 1954. Read Our ReviewNo. 34 Uzbekistan“Murder in Samarkand” is Murray’s personal account as the British envoy in Tashkent, Uzbekistan, from 2002 to 2004. “In his memoir, he incorporates political argument as well as personal reflection” in a place where he “found himself caught between geopolitical considerations — the strategic partnership between Uzbekistan and the United States and Britain — and his concern for the people living under a despotic leader.” Read Our ReviewNo. 35 Vestlandet, NorwayThis debut novel is set in Norway’s Lofoten Islands. “The constant sunlight of midsummer feeds the book’s dreamy, surreal quality.” Dinerstein’s “narrative style is also dreamlike; many things happen, but little feels at stake.”Read Our ReviewNo. 36 Lyon, FranceThis “story of innocents abroad is a familiar one, but the tale bears repeating when the teller is as engaging, funny and richly appreciative of ‘serious stomachs’ as Mr. Mayle is.” Yes, it’s Provence not Lyon, but this book is perfect vacation reading, especially when you are exploring the French countryside.Read Our ReviewNo. 37 Doha, QatarThe author’s American mother is from Washington State and her father is a Bedouin Qatari. What’s so striking about this memoir is the many forms of conflict that Al-Maria writes about. It’s not just the “tension between modernity and tradition in the Gulf States,” it’s also “her childhood shuttling between the ‘soggy blades of grass’ of the Pacific Northwest and ‘the pockmarked moonscape of construction pits and cranes’ in the Qatari capital of Doha.”Read Our ReviewNo. 38 Batumi, GeorgiaSteavenson, a journalist, moves to post-Soviet Georgia and writes about her journey in a fun and caring manner. Whether it’s love, drinking, water shortages, refugees or fixed elections, it’s all there, beautifully and bizarrely told. No. 39 Marseille, FranceIf you’re in Marseilles, the perfect books to read are Izzo’s noir crime novels, which are all set in that French city. And in “Total Chaos,” this seaport town’s “geography seems to dictate the narrative.” Read Our ReviewNo. 40 WyomingIn this collection, Proulx tells the stories of people who “lead hard lives, working livestock, raising sheep, riding the rodeo circuit, selling trinkets to tourists, trying to wrest a living from the gritty hardpan of their failing farms. No one is successful here except the bar owners, the dude ranchers and the cattle traders, and they are always just offstage, counting their money.”Read Our ReviewNo. 41 Los Angeles“‘Slouching Towards Bethlehem’ brings together some of the finest magazine pieces published by anyone in this country in recent years.” These “melancholy essays about the way things are, mainly in California … are also finely written,” and proof that “Didion is an intelligent woman, with an intelligent heart.”Read Our ReviewNo. 42 Dakar, SenegalThe poet and essayist Léopold Sédar Senghor was the president of Senegal from 1960 to 1981. He was a co-founder of the Negritude movement, which “refers to an African essence, replete with philosophical and psychological consequences,” and is considered one of the most significant figures in African literature. No. 43 Perth, AustraliaIn “Cloudstreet” — which is set in postwar, working-class Perth — Winton “captures social and commercial aspects of Western Australia's recent past: shrimping, phosphate mining, kangaroo hunting in the wheat fields.”Read Our ReviewNo. 44 Hong KongMo’s grand-scale historical novel set in 19th-century Hong Kong “fascinates much as a great, highly illustrated encyclopedia will fascinate, with odd bits of information competing with long, sustained passages of action, description and pure narrative.”Read Our ReviewNo. 45 Iran“The Story of a Childhood” is the first volume of Satrapi’s “Persepolis,” which combines political history and graphic memoir, portraying Iran’s “20th-century upheavals through the story of one family.” The protagonist, Marji, is growing up “in a fashionably radical household in Tehran,” and she is “bent on prying from her evasive elders if not truth, at least a credible explanation of the travails they are living through.Read Our ReviewNo. 46 HoustonMcMurtry is considered by many readers to be “the most important Texas writer.” His “Terms of Endearment,” which features an overbearing widowed mother and her rebellious daughter as they face a variety of challenges, is set in Houston and considered the third volume in his Houston trilogy. No. 47 Columbus, OhioAbdurraqib is a poet, essayist and cultural critic from Columbus, Ohio. This book is a collection of his essays, which weave his autobiography into his thoughts on race, religion, identity and music.No. 48 Plodiv, BulgariaKostova’s “The Historian” is a “canny high-low pop-cultural blend” with its “legend of Dracula as a central theme (think Anne Rice fans) while also being “an inquiry into the vagaries of historical research (think Umberto Eco fans).”Read Our ReviewNo. 49 Vevey, Switzerland“Hotel du Lac,” which chronicles a single woman's vacation at a Swiss resort, is generally viewed as Brookner’s “most absorbing novel; the heroine is more philosophical from the outset, more self-reliant, more conscious that a solitary life is not, after all, an unmitigated tragedy.”Read Our ReviewNo. 50 Cádiz, SpainPerez-Reverte’s genre-bending literary novel is filled with history, adventure, suspense and romance and set in Cádiz in 1811 when the Spanish port city was surrounded by Napoleon’s army. No. 51 The Elqui Valley, Chile“The Savage Detectives” by Bolaño, a Chilean author, tells the story of the search for a 1920s Mexican poet, Cesárea Tinajero, by two 1970s poets, the Chilean Arturo Bolano and Ulises Lima of Mexico. The novel is “both melancholy and fortifying; and it is both narrowly about poetry and broadly about the difficulty of sustaining the hopes of youth.” Read Our ReviewNo. 52 The Islands of TahitiMaugham’s “The Moon and Sixpence” is a first-person narrative based on the life of Paul Gauguin. In the 1919 novel, an English banker, mirroring Gauguin, abandons his family and moves to Paris to become an artist and eventually immigrates to Tahiti. It’s a fun book to read when you are looking to get away from it all. Advertisement"
" 

      By JASON BAILEY

UPDATED April 16, 2019

We’ve plucked out 100 of the absolute best movies included with a Prime subscription right now. Take a look.
Sign up for our Watching Newsletter to get recommendations on the best films and TV shows to stream and watch, delivered to your inbox. As Netflix pours more of its resources into original content, Amazon Prime Video is picking up the slack, adding new movies for its subscribers each month. Its catalog has grown so impressive, in fact, that it’s a bit overwhelming — and at the same time, movies that are included with a Prime subscription regularly change status, becoming available only for rental or purchase. It’s a lot to sift through, so we’ve plucked out 100 of the absolute best movies included with a Prime subscription right now, to be updated as new information is made available.Our list of the best movies on Netflix is here.Two “lifers,” locked up together indefinitely in Shawshank prison, form a bond that transcends decades of their lives and, ultimately, their own incarcerations in this heart-wrenching adaptation of an atypically non-genre novella by Stephen King. Tim Robbins is in fine form as Andy Dufresne, convicted of a crime he didn’t commit and dedicated to proving it. As Red, the guy who can get anything for anybody, Morgan Freeman (who also narrates) crafts the quintessential Morgan Freeman performance: folksy and friendly, but with a layer of steel underneath. Our critic called it “a slow, gentle story of camaraderie and growth.”
Watch on Amazon
Ethan Hawke creates one of his finest performances as Father Toller, a country priest with a small parish in upstate New York, in this critically acclaimed drama. Paul Schrader, the writer and director, continues to explore the themes of earlier works like “Taxi Driver” and “Hardcore” while simultaneously seizing on the austerity of Toller’s world: The film is quiet and contemplative, which makes its apocalyptic, shattering conclusion all the more impactful. Our critic called it “rigorously conceived and meticulously executed.” (Also recommended: the small but powerful indie drama “We Need to Talk About Kevin.”)
Watch on Amazon
George Clooney turns in one of his most nuanced performances in this sharp and affecting comedy-drama from the writer and director Jason Reitman (“Juno”). Clooney uses his movie-star good looks and charisma in service of the supremely confident Ryan Bingham, a man who specializes in being the corporate bad guy (he is brought in to handle the layoffs), but whose confidence slowly deteriorates; Anna Kendrick is pitch-perfect as the young woman who is seeking to streamline their profession, and consequently put him out of a job. Our Manohla Dargis praised this “laugh-infused stealth tragedy.”
Watch on Amazon
Two jazz musicians (Jack Lemmon and Tony Curtis) disguise themselves in drag to escape some gangsters, but one of them falls for a seductive singer (Marilyn Monroe, in one of her best performances), while the other becomes the object of a millionaire’s desire. Both uproariously funny and tight as a drum, “Some Like It Hot” works through every complication of its farcical set-up, landing not only on a picture-perfect conclusion but also on one of the best closing lines in all of cinema. Our critic dubbed it “a rare, rib-tickling lampoon.” (Wilder and Lemmon re-teamed the next year for the marvelous “The Apartment” and again in 1966 for “The Fortune Cookie”; both are also on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
The three-decade journey of the psychedelic rock band the Grateful Dead is brought to vivid life in this six-part, four-hour documentary from director Amir Bar-Lev (“The Tillman Story”). And while the archival materials and rarities will please Deadheads, the film has even more to offer to casual admirers and even newcomers, who will come away with a better understanding of what made this band (and the misfits they attracted) so special. Our critic called it “ambitiously assembled and elegantly directed.” (Music-minded documentary fans will also want to check out the peerless concert docs “Stop Making Sense” and “The Last Waltz.”)
Watch on Amazon
Jodie Foster won her first Academy Award for her forceful turn as a rape victim in this brutal but essential drama. It’s a hard film to watch, particularly in its relentless dramatizations of the assault, and yet it is not without hope or catharsis, and it prompts fascinating (and still very poignant) questions about responsibility, harassment and victim blaming. Foster’s performance is still a stunner: Detailed and grounded, her character refuses to pander for sympathy or “likability.” Our critic deemed it “a consistently engrossing melodrama.”
Watch on Amazon
The director Frank Capra and the actor Jimmy Stewart took a marvelously simple premise — a suicidal man is given the opportunity to see what his world would have been like without him — and turned it into a holiday perennial. But “It’s a Wonderful Life” is too rich and complex to brand with a label as simple as “Christmas movie”; it is ultimately a story about overcoming darkness and finding light around you, a tricky transition achieved primarily through the peerless work of Stewart as a good man with big dreams who can’t walk away from the place where he’s needed most. Our critic dubbed it a “quaint and engaging modern parable.”
Watch on Amazon
Harrison Ford stars as John Book, a Philadelphia police detective investigating a murder whose only witness is a young Amish boy, so he follows the boy and his mother (Kelly McGillis) back to their insular community to protect them. The director Peter Weir (“Picnic at Hanging Rock,” “Dead Poets Society”) deftly intermingles this suspenseful mystery story with an affecting human drama, in which Book finds himself drawn not only to the small Amish town but also to the young mother — which raises the stakes considerably. (For another look at off-the-grid living, try “Leave No Trace” on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
Roman Polanski’s brings a 1970s sensibility to a classic 1940s private eye movie, and explores the tension between those two eras — between what we were traditionally shown and the sex, drugs and moral rot that production codes kept off-screen. Jack Nicholson crafts one of his finest performances as J.J. Gittes, a laid-back Los Angeles gumshoe who gets in way over his head, while Faye Dunaway takes the conventions of the slinky femme fatale and turns them into a portrait of genuine pain and abuse. A.O. Scott says the film “pushes beyond the conventions of the genre.” (The stark, disturbing Dunaway vehicle “Eyes of Laura Mars” is also currently streaming on Prime, as is another terrific ‘70s action flick, “The Taking of Pelham 123.”)
Watch on Amazon
Nearly 30 years before Quentin Tarantino and Robert Rodriguez’s “Grindhouse,” the director Stanley Donen and the screenwriter Larry Gelbart perfected the fake double-feature with this affectionate send-up of classic Hollywood. “Movie Movie” gives us two films for the price of one, a black-and-white boxing melodrama and a color musical spectacular (with a fake trailer for a World War II flying-ace picture between them), with shared casts including George C. Scott, Trish Van Devere, Red Buttons and Eli Wallach. Our critic called it “Hollywood flimflamming at its elegant best.”
Watch on Amazon
In profiling leaders of the Indonesian death squads of the mid-1960s, documentarian Joshua Oppenheimer invites them to stage elaborate and surreal recreations of their crimes in the cinematic style of their choosing (musical, gangster, Western, etc.). In doing so, Oppenheimer directs his subjects to craft an upsetting but telling statement on self-deception and the toxicity of power, and on the lies we tell ourselves in order to sleep at night. Our critic deemed it “dogged, inventive, profoundly upsetting and dismayingly funny.”
Watch on Amazon
Greta Gerwig made her solo feature directorial debut with this funny and piercing coming-of-age story, set in her hometown, Sacramento, Calif. Saoirse Ronan dazzles in the titular role as a quietly rebellious high-school senior whose quests for love and popularity bring her long-simmering resentments toward her mother (Laurie Metcalf, magnificent) to a boil. Parent-child conflicts are nothing new in teen stories, but Gerwig’s perceptive screenplay slashes through the familiar types and tropes, daring to create characters that are complicated and flawed, yet deeply sympathetic. A.O. Scott praised the film’s “freshness and surprise.” (We also recommend “The Squid and the Whale,” another witty coming-of-age comedy/drama, from Gerwig’s frequent collaborator Noah Baumbach.)
Watch on Amazon
When people say, “They don’t make’ em like they used to,” this is the kind of movie they’re usually talking about: a sparkling literary adaptation, handsomely mounted and elegantly acted by an all-star cast (including Sean Connery, Lauren Bacall, John Gielgud, Anthony Perkins, Vanessa Redgrave and Ingrid Bergman, who won an Oscar for her role). Albert Finney stars as Agatha Christie’s Hercule Poirot, who is called upon to figure out which passenger on the title train killed a man whom, it seems, they all had a motive to murder. Our critic called it “superb fun.” (Lumet’s first film, “12 Angry Men,” is also on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
The director of “Tangerine,” Sean Baker, returns with another warm and funny portrait of life on the fringes, melding a cast of nonactors and newcomers with an Oscar-nominated Willem Dafoe as the manager of a cheap Orlando motel populated by confused tourists and barely-managing families. The script (by Baker and Chris Bergoch) captures, with startling verisimilitude, the anxieties of living paycheck-to-paycheck (particularly when the next paycheck’s very existence is uncertain) while also borrowing the devil-may-care playfulness of the children at the story’s center. Our critic called it “risky and revelatory.” (Fans of unpredictable indie fare may also enjoy “You Were Never Really Here.”)
Watch on Amazon
The 2017 Academy Award winner for best picture, this triptych about a young, gay African-American man’s coming of age in Miami is a quietly revelatory piece of work, exploring and challenging modern perceptions of masculinity, family, power and love. Director Barry Jenkins (adapting a play by Tarell Alvin McCraney) creates a world so dense with detail and rich with humanity that every character gets a chance to shine; the themes and ideas are all above board, but conveyed with subtlety and understatement. Our critic described it as “a poem written in light, music and vivid human faces.” (“Eighth Grade” and “It Felt Like Love” are similarly complicated coming-of-age stories on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
Robert De Niro won his second Academy Award for his fiercely physical and psychologically punishing performance in this searing adaptation of the autobiography of the middleweight champion Jake LaMotta. It’s a relentlessly downbeat piece of work, but the force of De Niro’s performance and the energy of Martin Scorsese’s direction are hard to overstate, or to forget. Our critic called it Scorsese’s “most ambitious film as well as his finest.” (De Niro and Scorsese’s later collaboration “The King of Comedy” is also on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
An unexplained and unstoppable zombie uprising forces a group of strangers to join forces for a common goal in this 1968 horror classic from director George A. Romero. In the half-century since its release, it’s been justifiably praised for its pseudo-documentary, newsreel aesthetic, as well as the adjacent social commentary and political subtext (particularly with regards to its African-American lead, and the unexpected payoff of its grim final scene). But it also remains, after all these years, scary as hell. (If you’re looking for a newer chiller, try out “Hereditary.”)
Watch on Amazon
This classic 1952 Western from the director Fred Zinnemann is best remembered for its innovative construction, in which a small-town marshal’s looming standoff with a revenge-seeking outlaw is dramatized in real time. The film was widely read as an allegory for the film industry blacklists of the era — the screenwriter Carl Foreman was deemed an “uncooperative witness” by the House Un-American Activities Committee. But “High Noon” also cleared an important path for the future of the Western, replacing the usual genre high jinks with thoughtful explorations of masculinity and violence; our critic called it “a Western of rare achievement.” (Western lovers may enjoy the John Wayne classic “Red River.”)
Watch on Amazon
South Korean master Park Chan-wook (“Oldboy”) takes the stylistic trappings of a period romance and gooses them with scorching eroticism and one of the most ingenious con-artist plots this side of “The Sting.” Working from the Sarah Waters novel “Fingersmith,” Park begins with the story of a young woman who, as part of a seemingly straightforward swindle, goes to work as a Japanese heiress’s handmaiden, occasionally pausing the plot to slyly reveal new information, reframing what we’ve seen and where we think he might go next. Manohla Dargis dubbed it an “amusingly slippery entertainment.” (For a more classically flavored story of women on the take, try “Love & Friendship.”)
Watch on Amazon
Directed by Howard Hawks, this 1940 film wasn’t the first cinematic adaptation of the popular play “The Front Page,” but it cooked up a twist the 1931 version hadn’t: What if Hildy Johnson, the superstar reporter whom the ruthless editor Walter Burns will keep on his staff at any cost, wasn’t his drinking buddy but his ex-wife? It’s a movie that talks fast and moves faster, and the passage of nearly 80 years hasn’t slowed it down a bit. Our critic called it “a bold-faced reprint of what was once—and still remains—the maddest newspaper comedy of our times.” (For more classic romance, check out “Royal Wedding,” “My Man Godfrey,” or “Born Yesterday.”)
Watch on Amazon
Reeling from the costly disaster of his ill-fated “Dune” adaptation, director David Lynch retreated to his roots— a low-budget independent production, based on nothing more than the odd notions rattling around his own head — and came up with a masterpiece. This twisted mystery thriller follows a naïve young man (Lynch’s frequent lead, Kyle MacLachlan) as he peers under the rocks of his seemingly idyllic small town and discovers the monsters scurrying beneath. Our critic deemed it “as fascinating as it is freakish.”
Watch on Amazon
Three years after reinventing the crime movie with “Bonnie and Clyde,” director Arthur Penn worked similar magic on the Western, adapting Thomas Berger’s novel about a very old man (Dustin Hoffman) who tells the tale of his exploits in the Old West, where he was raised by Native Americans. The film’s attitudes toward indigenous people were boldy progressive at the time of its release, in 1970, coming as it did during a period when most Westerns still teemed with racist images of “merciless Indian savages.” (Source: The Declaration of Independence.) Our critic called it a “tough testament to the contrariness of the American experience.” (Hoffman admirers will also want to seek out “Marathon Man.”)
Watch on Amazon
Between the first two “Godfather” epics, Francis Ford Coppola wrote and directed this modest character study, in which a proudly impersonal surveillance expert (Gene Hackman) becomes unexpectedly invested in the subjects of his work and then decides he must step in to save their lives. Like its protagonist, “The Conversation” is most riveting in its quietest moments, though its bold opening sequence — in which Caul attempts to eavesdrop on a whispered conversation in a crowded park — is both brilliant filmmaking and a riveting snapshot of Watergate-era America. Our critic praised Hackman’s “superb performance.” (Like paranoid thrillers? Try David Fincher’s “The Game” or Gregory Hoblit’s “Primal Fear.”)
Watch on Amazon
Asghar Farhadi writes and directs this lucid and contemplative morality play, in which a married couple must grapple with the fallout of an assault on the wife in their home, particularly when the husband’s desire for vengeance surpasses her own. Farhadi’s brilliance at capturing the complexities of his native Iran’s culture is as astonishing as ever — particularly when coupled with insights into victimhood, justice, poverty and intimacy that know no borders. A.O. Scott praised the picture’s “rich and resonant ideas.” (Foreign film fans may also enjoy “Cold War” and “Embrace of the Serpent.”)
Watch on Amazon
Martin Scorsese is best known for kinetic gangster movies like “Goodfellas,” “The Departed,” and “Casino,” but sometimes another Scorsese surfaces, the director of quiet, austere meditations on religious faith like “The Last Temptation of Christ,” “Kundun” and this 2016 adaptation of the novel by Shusaku Endo. Scorsese sheds his customary stylistic flourishes and explores the central theological problem with humble solemnity, resulting in one of his riskiest films, and one of his most rewarding. Our critic praised its “haunting tableaus and performances.” (Scorsese’s “Hugo” is also on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
So much of contemporary science fiction is merely action in sci-fi clothing (the “Independence Day” effect, 22 years on) that it’s refreshing to encounter a film that uses its big budget, name actors and special effects to imagine not how we would battle extraterrestrials, but how we would try to embrace and understand them. Amy Adams and Jeremy Renner star as a linguist and a mathematician who attempt to establish a common language with the inhabitants of an alien ship — all while an impatient world and trigger-happy military clamor for answers and bend to paranoia. Our critic admired how it works in a “more idealistic hopeful key than most movies in this genre.” 
Watch on Amazon
This stunning documentary concerns the life and writings of James Baldwin, but it’s less focused on tracing the arc of its subject’s life than on the potency of his words. Director Raoul Peck uses as his framework the notes of Baldwin’s unfinished book “Remember This House,” in which Baldwin was attempting to reckon with the legacies of Martin Luther King, Malcolm X and Medgar Evers; guided by Baldwin’s passages, Peck constructs an urgent and audacious essay about our past and our present. Our critic called it “a concise, roughly 90-minute movie with the scope and impact of a 10-hour mini-series.” (Documentary lovers should also seek out “Stories We Tell” and “Nuts!”)
Watch on Amazon
One of the most enduring images of the great Buster Keaton comes from this 1928 classic, in which a clueless Keaton, wandering the streets of his hometown during a cyclone, pauses for a moment in front of a building — which collapses around him, his life saved only by his accidental position in the landing place of an open window. Our critic called it “one of the most astonishing sight gags ever filmed,” and good news: The rest of the movie is wonderful too. (For more of Mr. Keaton, stream “College” on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
This vibrant and playful 2017 exploration of the life of Emily Dickinson comes from the fertile mind of the great British writer and director Terence Davies (“The Deep Blue Sea”), who so frequently and masterfully unearths the raw desires and emotional truths of the periods he explores. This time, he has the good fortune of partnering up with Cynthia Nixon in the leading role; she adroitly dramatizes Dickinson’s journey, emphasizing the humor and happiness of her earlier years, and how that joy gradually dissipated. “Though ‘A Quiet Passion’ is small,” our critic wrote, “it contains multitudes.”
Watch on Amazon
Joel and Ethan Coen’s story of a struggling folk singer in Greenwich Village in 1961 cheerfully intertwines fact and fiction; they faithfully reproduce that period, and incorporate many of its key figures into a week in the life of the title character (played by Oscar Isaac). But this is not just a museum piece, or a “music movie.” It’s about the feeling of knowing that success is overdue, and yet may never arrive. A.O. Scott called it an “intoxicating ramble.” (For a more traditional musical drama, check out “Fiddler on the Roof.”)
Watch on Amazon
Kenneth Lonergan makes films about people in turmoil, roiled by bottomless sadness, dysfunction and guilt. Casey Affleck won an Oscar for his nuanced portrayal of Lee Chandler, a Boston plumber who, for all practical purposes, is broken; Lucas Hedges is prickly and funny as the nephew who needs him to put himself together again. Keenly observed, emotionally fraught and surprisingly funny, it’s a tear-jerker in the best sense, never stooping to cheap manipulation. Our critic called it “a finely shaded portrait.” (For more indie drama, try “Mystic Pizza.”)
Watch on Amazon
Meryl Streep won her second Oscar for this elegiac adaptation of the William Styron novel, directed by Alan J. Pakula (“All the President’s Men”). What begins as a folksy story of a would-be writer and his friendship with the couple upstairs grows into something far more traumatic, as the naïve, young Stingo (Peter MacNicol) discovers exactly what led Sophie (Streep), a Polish immigrant, to lose her two children before immigrating to the United States. Our critic wrote, “It's a film that casts a powerful, uninterrupted spell.” (For a somewhat lighter literary adaptation, queue up “Wonder Boys.”)
Watch on Amazon
“Fences,” August Wilson’s Pulitzer Prize-winning play about an African-American family’s struggles in 1950s Pittsburgh, was first performed on Broadway in 1987; after Denzel Washington starred in its 2010 revival, he retained much of the original cast for this film adaptation, which he directed himself. The familiarity with the material and the cast’s familiarity with one another is clear: The characters have the offhand intimacy of family and longtime friends, and the psychological minefields of Wilson’s text are navigated with subtle dexterity. Our critic called it “much more than a filmed reading.” (Also recommended: “Ordinary People,” another tricky family drama, from Robert Redford, another actor turned director.)
Watch on Amazon
A young man’s coming of age becomes a group project when his single mother (Annette Bening) reaches out to their housemates and friends for help, resulting in a slightly more complicated education than she envisioned. This touching and personal dramedy from the writer-director Mike Mills (“Beginners”) deftly conveys the period without relying on caricature, and resists resorting to cheap villainy or soapboxing. Every character is brought to life with humor and sensitivity, and Bening’s work is among her very best. Manohla Dargis deemed it “a funny, emotionally piercing story.”
Watch on Amazon
We’ve seen countless stories of nasty, selfish people who go on a voyage of self-discovery and come out the other side as better, wiser souls. This acidic comedy-drama asks: What if that journey didn’t take? Mavis Gary (Charlize Theron, in take-no-prisoners mode), a bitter young-adult author who returns to her hometown in hopes of reuniting with her high-school boyfriend, his picture-perfect married life be damned. A film that zigs when you’re certain it will zag, “Young Adult” tells a satisfying story that is also a sly critique of the conventions of modern moviemaking. Our critic praised its “brilliant, brave and breathtakingly cynical heart.”
Watch on Amazon
In 1989, the country was shocked by the sexual assault and near-death of a young white jogger in Central Park. Five black and Latino youths were quickly charged, tried, sentenced and imprisoned — until a serial rapist confessed over a decade later, his claim borne out by DNA evidence. This informative and infuriating documentary by Ken Burns, Sarah Burns and David McMahon meticulously details the charged atmosphere in which the five teenagers were accused and convicted, as well as the tremendous personal toll taken by this miscarriage of justice. Our critic called it “emotionally stirring.”
Watch on Amazon
Michelle Pfeiffer finally found her star-making role in this deliriously enjoyable gangster comedy from the director Jonathan Demme (“The Silence of the Lambs”). She plays Angela de Marco, a Mob widow who finds herself caught between the crime family of her dead husband (Alec Baldwin) and the affable F.B.I. man (Matthew Modine) who wants her to work for him. Jazzily mounted and giddily funny, our critic called it “wildly overdecorated screwball farce.” (For more modern screwball fun, stream “The Adventures of Priscilla, Queen of the Desert” or “Dirty Rotten Scoundrels” on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
Over the course of this wistful and lovely low-key dramedy from Jim Jarmusch, the bus-driving poet named Paterson (Adam Driver) does not seek success, discovery or even publication. That’s not why he writes — it’s about routine and release. Intoxicatingly lived-in, “Paterson” is a valentine to all of those who create art not to make a living, but to sustain their souls in the meantime. Our critic praised its “visual precision and emotional restraint.”
Watch on Amazon
Set at a group home for troubled teens, this 2013 indie drama from director Destin Daniel Cretton casts aside the after school-special conventions typical of such stories and digs out the dramatic truths buried within. Cretton offsets the inherently downbeat subject matter with an exuberant directorial hand and coaxes gutsy performances from his ace cast, including “before they were stars” turns by Brie Larson, Lakeith Stanfield, Stephanie Beatriz and Rami Malek. Our critic noted, “Mr. Cretton manages to earn your tears honestly.” (Admirers of indie coming-of-age dramas should also check out “Mud” and “Precious.”)
Watch on Amazon
Charles Chaplin’s first feature-length comedy — “six reels of joy,” according to the original advertisements — was informed by his suspicion that audiences would grow restless if subjected to an hour-plus of gags and slapstick. So he went all-in on pathos, creating a story in which his iconic Little Tramp character discovers an abandoned baby, raises the child as his own and must then summon all his ingenuity to keep their makeshift family intact. Even this first time out, Chaplin juggles the seemingly incongruent tones with ease. Our critic praised Chaplin’s “inimitable pantomime.” (Silent movie fanatics will also want to stream the Amazon original “Wonderstruck.”)
Watch on Amazon
Emily V. Gordon and Kumail Nanjiani based their first screenplay on their own, unconventional love story — a courtship that was paused, then oddly amplified by an unexpected illness and a medically induced coma. This isn’t typical rom-com fodder, but it’s written and played with such honesty and heart that it somehow lands. Nanjiani and Zoe Kazan (standing in for Gordon) generate easy, lived-in chemistry and a rooting interest in the relationship, while a second-act appearance by Holly Hunter and Ray Romano as her parents creates a prickly tension that gives way to hard-won affection. Our critic deemed it “a joyous, generous-hearted romantic comedy.” (If you like your comedies with a dash of heartfelt drama, we recommend “Moonstruck” and“Jeff, Who Lives at Home.”)
Watch on Amazon
As director of the “Ocean’s” trilogy, Steven Soderbergh honored the classic heist movie aesthetic: sleek, classy and star-studded. And then he set out to subvert all of those conventions with this working-class heist comedy, in which a minor character describes its central job as “Ocean’s 7-11.” The key players are familiar (the safecracker, the computer whiz, the sexy girl, the brains of the operation), but they’re done with salty fun and earthy humor. You’ll never say “cauliflower” the same way again. Our critic dubbed it “gravity-defying” and “ridiculously entertaining.” (Caper movie fans may also enjoy the somewhat grittier “A Simple Plan” and “Good Time.”)
Watch on Amazon
Osgood Perkins — son of the “Psycho” star Anthony Perkins — writes and directs this unnerving and disturbing story of creepy goings-on at a near-empty girls’ boarding school. The performances (from Kiernan Shipka, Lucy Boynton, and Emma Roberts) are sharp and the scares are genuine, while Perkins’ orchestration of mood and atmosphere is chillingly effective. Our critic called it “perfectly acted and gorgeously filmed.”
Watch on Amazon
Kevin Costner, Susan Sarandon and Tim Robbins were all propelled to the next level of stardom by this 1988 sleeper hit from the writer-director Ron Shelton, and it’s not hard to see why. It’s a laid-back charmer, endlessly funny and casually sexy, and it gives all of them the opportunity to do what they do best: it features Costner shooting straight, Sarandon smoldering, and Robbins playing an amiable goofball. Our critic praised its “spirit and sex appeal.” (Sarandon also stars in “Thelma and Louise,” currently streaming on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
The first two collaborations between Clint Eastwood and director Sergio Leone, “A Fistful of Dollars” and “A Few Dollars More,” did nothing less than reinvent a genre, diverting popular attention from the increasingly stodgy traditional Western to the so-called “Spaghetti Western,” which ramped up the bloodshed, self-awareness and stylistic exuberance. Those films were modest, low-budget affairs, but Leone and Eastwood broke the mold with this trilogy-ending masterpiece in 1966, which runs nearly three hours and elevates its antiheroes to near-mythic status. Our critic called it “luridly intoxicating.” (“A Fistful of Dollars”and “For a Few Dollars More” are also streaming on Prime.)
Watch on Amazon
The original 1956 “Invasion of the Body Snatchers,” in which alien invaders implant themselves in humans and take on their form, was widely seen as an allegory for the Red Scare. This “dazzling remake,” as our critic described it, is updated and released from that context, but it found another in post-hippie, health-obsessed San Francisco. The stakes are lower, but the remake has a self-aware sense of humor and a decent proportion of gross-outs and jump-scares, as well as an ending that’s just as creepy as the original’s. (Fans of trippy thrillers will also enjoy “Always Shine.”)
Watch on Amazon
The esteemed character actor Charles Laughton made his one and only trip behind the camera for this haunting small-town thriller. Robert Mitchum crafts a chilling, unforgettable performance as Harry Powell, a mysterious stranger who romances a widowed mother (a superb Shelley Winters) whose children seem to be the only ones capable of seeing the evil within him. Our critic called it “clever and exceptionally effective.” (Classic movie fans will also want to stream David Lean’s 1946 adaptation of “Great Expectations.”)
Watch on Amazon
John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd kicked off the tradition of translating “Saturday Night Live” characters to the big screen with this outsized musical-action-comedy from the director John Landis (“Animal House”). The plot is old hat: The title characters try to put their old band back together in order to save their childhood orphanage. But it proves to be an ingenious clothesline upon which Aykroyd and Landis’s script can hang a serious of rousing musical numbers and car-crunching chase scenes. Our critic called those sequences “dazzling.” (For more irreverent musical comedy, check out “A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum.”)
Watch on Amazon
The director John Schlesinger captures the sights and sounds (and practically the smells) of Times Square in the late 1960s with this absorbing winner of the Oscar for Best Picture — the first and only X-rated movie to capture that prize. Jon Voight was propelled to stardom by his charming performance as Joe Buck, a naïve Texas boy who comes to New York City with visions of rich women in his head; Dustin Hoffman created another memorable character as the street-wise native who shows him the ropes. (“I’m walkin’ here!”) Our critic called it “a moving experience that captures the quality of a time and a place.”
Watch on Amazon
This Polish possession story from the writer and director Marcin Wrona opens on a note of uncertainty and dread and then holds it for 94 harrowing minutes. Wrona transforms the relatable fears of wedding day into something far more sinister, as our groom protagonist discovers horrifying skeletons in his new family’s closet (or, more accurately, its yard); the filmmaker offsets the considerable nightmare imagery and wild-eyed desperation with piercing moments of gallows humor, particularly in contemplating how “sensible people” might react to these events. Our critic praised its “light shivers” and “bluntly old-fashioned screen magic.”
Watch on Amazon
Oliver Stone graduated from a respected screenwriter to a top-flight filmmaker with this harrowing Vietnam War drama, which won Oscars for best Picture and director. Stone based the film on his own experiences in Vietnam, with Charlie Sheen as his avatar, a clean-cut kid from a privileged background whose eyes are opened to the horrors of combat and conflict. Willem Dafoe and Tom Berenger singe the screen as his sergeants, one free-spirited and open, the other hard-edged and cruel. Our critic called it a “vivid, terse, exceptionally moving” film. (For a more conventional war movie, queue up “The Great Escape.”)
Watch on Amazon
Advertisement"
