0
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IsaacSAN FRANCISCO — Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, plans to integrate the social network’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger — asserting his control over the company’s sprawling divisions at a time when its business has been battered by scandal.The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps, but their underlying technical infrastructure will be unified, said four people involved in the effort. That will bring together three of the world’s largest messaging networks, which between them have more than 2.6 billion users, allowing people to communicate across the platforms for the first time.The move has the potential to redefine how billions of people use the apps to connect with one another while strengthening Facebook’s grip on users, raising antitrust, privacy and security questions. It also underscores how Mr. Zuckerberg is imposing his authority over units he once vowed to leave alone.The plan — which is in the early stages, with a goal of completion by the end of this year or early 2020 — requires thousands of Facebook employees to reconfigure how WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger function at their most basic levels, said the people involved in the effort, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the matter is confidential.Mr. Zuckerberg has also ordered that the apps all incorporate end-to-end encryption, the people said, a major step that protects messages from being viewed by anyone except the participants in a conversation.In a statement, Facebook said it wanted to “build the best messaging experiences we can; and people want messaging to be fast, simple, reliable and private.” It added: “We’re working on making more of our messaging products end-to-end encrypted and considering ways to make it easier to reach friends and family across networks.”By stitching the apps’ infrastructure together, Mr. Zuckerberg hopes to increase Facebook’s utility and keep users highly engaged inside the company’s ecosystem. That could reduce people’s appetite for rival messaging services, like those offered by Apple and Google. If users can interact more frequently with Facebook’s apps, the company might also be able to increase its advertising business or add new revenue-generating services, the people said.The change follows two years of scrutiny of Facebook’s core social network, which has been criticized for allowing election meddling and the spreading of disinformation. Those and other issues have slowed Facebook’s growth and damaged its reputation, raising the hackles of lawmakers and regulators around the world. Mr. Zuckerberg has repeatedly apologized for the problems and has vowed to fix them.Knitting together Facebook’s apps is a stark reversal of Mr. Zuckerberg’s previous stance toward WhatsApp and Instagram, which were independent companies that Facebook acquired. At the time of the acquisitions, Mr. Zuckerberg promised WhatsApp and Instagram plenty of autonomy from their new parent company. (Facebook Messenger is a homegrown service spun off the main Facebook app in 2014.)WhatsApp and Instagram have grown tremendously since then, prompting Mr. Zuckerberg to change his thinking, one of the people said. He now believes integrating the services more tightly will benefit Facebook’s entire “family of apps” in the long term by making them more useful, the person said. Mr. Zuckerberg floated the idea for months and began to promote it to employees more heavily toward the end of 2018, the people said.The effort has caused strife within Facebook. Instagram’s founders, Kevin Systrom and Mike Krieger,  left the company abruptly last fall after Mr. Zuckerberg began weighing in more. WhatsApp’s founders, Jan Koum and Brian Acton,  departed for similar reasons. More recently, dozens of WhatsApp employees clashed with Mr. Zuckerberg over the integration plan on internal message boards and during a contentious staff meeting in December, according to four people who attended or were briefed on the event.The integration plan raises privacy questions because of how users’ data may be shared between services. WhatsApp currently requires only a phone number when new users sign up. By contrast, Facebook and Facebook Messenger ask users to provide their true identities. Matching Facebook and Instagram users to their WhatsApp handles could give pause to those who prefer to keep their use of each app separate.“As you would expect, there is a lot of discussion and debate as we begin the long process of figuring out all the details of how this will work,” Facebook said in a statement.Marc Rotenberg, president and executive director the Electronic Privacy Information Center, said on Friday that the change would be “a terrible outcome for internet users.” He urged the Federal Trade Commission, America’s de facto privacy regulator, to “act now to protect privacy and to preserve competition.”Representative Ro Khanna, Democrat of California, criticized the change on antitrust grounds.“This is why there should have been far more scrutiny during Facebook’s acquisitions of Instagram and WhatsApp, which now clearly seem like horizontal mergers that should have triggered antitrust scrutiny,” he said in a message on Twitter. “Imagine how different the world would be if Facebook had to compete with Instagram and WhatsApp.”People in many countries often rely on only one or two text messaging services. In China, WeChat, which is made by Tencent, is popular, while WhatsApp is heavily used in South America. Americans are more divided in their use of such services, SMS text messages, Apple’s iMessage and various Google chat apps.For Facebook, the move also offers avenues for making money from Instagram and WhatsApp. WhatsApp currently generates little revenue; Instagram produces ad revenue but none from its messaging. Mr. Zuckerberg does not yet have specific plans for how to profit from integrating the services, said two of the people involved in the matter. A more engaged audience could result in new forms of advertising or other services for which Facebook could charge a fee, they said.One potential business opportunity involves Facebook Marketplace, a free Craigslist-like product where people can buy and sell goods. The service is popular in Southeast Asia and other markets outside the United States.When the apps are knitted together, Facebook Marketplace buyers and sellers in Southeast Asia will be able to communicate with one another using WhatsApp, which is popular in the region, rather than using Facebook Messenger or another, non-Facebook text message service. That could eventually yield new ad opportunities or profit-generating services, said one of the people.Some Facebook employees said they were confused about what made combining the messaging services so compelling to Mr. Zuckerberg. Some said it was jarring because of his past promises about independence. When Facebook acquired WhatsApp for $19 billion in 2014, Mr. Koum talked publicly about user privacy, and said, “If partnering with Facebook meant that we had to change our values, we wouldn’t have done it.”Last month, during one of WhatsApp’s monthly meetings for staff members, it became clear that Mr. Zuckerberg’s mandate would be a priority in 2019, said a person who was there. One WhatsApp employee then conducted an analysis of how many potential new users in the United States the integration plan could bring to Facebook, said two people familiar with the study. The total was relatively meager, the analysis showed.To assuage concerns, Mr. Zuckerberg called a follow-up meeting with WhatsApp employees a few days later, three of the people said. On Dec. 7, employees gathered around microphones at the WhatsApp offices to ask him why he was so invested in merging the services. Some said his answers were vague and meandering. Several WhatsApp employees have left or plan to leave because of Mr. Zuckerberg’s plans, the people said.Unifying the infrastructure for WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger is technically challenging. Unlike Facebook Messenger and Instagram, WhatsApp does not store messages and keeps minimal user data. It is the only one of the services to currently use end-to-end encryption by default.Encrypted messaging has long been supported by privacy advocates who fear governments or hackers may gain access to people’s personal messages. But it will raise other issues for Facebook, particularly related to its ability to spot and curb the spread of illicit activity or disinformation.Last year, researchers had trouble tracking disinformation on WhatsApp before the Brazilian presidential election, before eventually finding ways to do so. WhatsApp has recently placed limits on how many times a message can be forwarded on the service, in an effort to reduce the distribution of false content.Follow Mike Isaac on Twitter: @MikeIsaac.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byDealBookA simple rule that bolsters the banking system — “know your customer” — could help combat fake news and hate speech online if companies like Facebook and Twitter embraced it. By Andrew Ross SorkinExactly a year ago, Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, testified before Congress and apologized for his company’s role in enabling “fake news, foreign interference in elections and hate speech.” It was a memorable moment amid a broader reckoning that continues to inspire debate over how closely Facebook and other technology giants should be regulated. As Silicon Valley grapples with its version of becoming too big to fail, Mr. Zuckerberg and his industry peers might take lessons from Wall Street, whose leaders have some experience with government scrutiny. (On Wednesday, bank chief executives were being grilled by Congress.) Although it won’t address all of Big Tech’s problems, a simple rule that bolsters the banking system could do a lot to clean up some of the uglier aspects of social media that Mr. Zuckerberg felt compelled to apologize for. The concept is “know your customer” — or KYC, as it’s called on Wall Street — and it’s straightforward: Given concerns about privacy, security and fraud when it comes to money, no bank is allowed to take on a new customer without verifying its existence and vetting its background. The idea of applying such a rule to social media has been floated before, but it has so far failed to take hold. Now may be the right time. Consider this: Facebook has said it shut down over 1.5 billion fake accounts from April through September last year (yes, that’s a “B” in billion). That was up from the 1.3 billion such accounts it eliminated in the six previous months. To put those numbers in context, Facebook has a reported user base of 2.3 billion. What if social media companies had to verify their users the same way banks do? You'd probably feel more confident that you were interacting with real people and were not just a target for malicious bots. First, let’s acknowledge the practical considerations. Vetting the vast universe of those on social media would be a gargantuan task. When I broached the idea of applying a “know your customer” principle to their business, several senior executives at social media companies recoiled at the prospect, questioning how they would pull off such a huge feat, especially in emerging markets where many people lack credit cards, and even fixed street addresses can be hard to come by. Then there are the legitimate complaints about Facebook and its ilk already knowing too much about users. Who would want them to know even more? And what would the companies do to protect personal information better than they have in the past? After all, not long ago, Facebook disclosed that tens of millions of user passwords had not been stored securely.But the stakes may be too high not to consider some kind of heightened verification process.Facebook and Twitter, at least, clearly appreciate the importance of verification as a concept: Both offer blue-check-mark programs to confirm the authenticity of a small percentage of users, like celebrities.If the vetting of legitimate users were expanded, and the number of phony ones were reduced, the amount of hate speech and fake news polluting the social media platforms would almost certainly dwindle. And it would be hard for the companies to willfully ignore what remained.How would it work? A modified version of what goes on in the financial services industry is one possibility.When you open a bank account, you typically have to provide your name, address, Social Security number and date of birth.That information is crosschecked against databases to ensure that you’re a real person, that your credit score is solid and that your name doesn’t appear on a list of “politically exposed persons” that could put you at risk for bribery or corruption. The verification is also used to determine whether you have a criminal record that suggests possible money laundering or identity theft.That kind of vetting helps protect banks from doing business with criminals and helps protect clients who could be vulnerable to fraud.There is a precedent for adapting such a regimen for social media: NextDoor, a social network that helps people communicate in their local communities, won’t let new users sign up unless their addresses can be verified.A would-be NextDoor user must submit a credit card or phone number, which the site cross-references against databases. If you don’t have either, the site sends a postcard to your address with a code you can use online.The good news is that NextDoor knows its customers very well. The bad news is that its verification process would be extremely difficult to expand widely and quickly.The company doesn’t disclose user numbers, only that it is in more than 200,000 neighborhoods. Reports suggest it has tens of millions of users, a far cry from the billions using more popular social networks. If introducing such a system at that scale is too daunting, testing it in the United States and Canada first might be one way to start.The need for a “know your customer” rule could take on a new urgency as social networks evolve to become fully encrypted private-messaging services, as Mr. Zuckerberg has indicated he plans to do with Facebook.“I believe the future of communication will increasingly shift to private, encrypted services where people can be confident what they say to each other stays secure and their messages and content won’t stick around forever,” he said.It’s a laudable goal, but if the users are fake, or otherwise unaccountable, from the outset, the ease with which they could spread misinformation on encrypted networks would have even more troubling implications.That is, unless, there was a viable mechanism for vouching for individual identities — for networks to know their customers, as it were. It just seems like common sense.Andrew Ross Sorkin is a columnist and the founder and editor-at-large of DealBook. He is a co-anchor of CNBC’s Squawk Box and the author of “Too Big to Fail.” He is also the co-creator of the Showtime drama series Billions.  @andrewrsorkin • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNot in the United States, anyway. By Sarah JeongMs. Jeong is a member of the editorial board. In an opinion article published last weekend, Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said he agreed with the growing consensus that Facebook — and other social media companies — should be subject to more regulation. The article, published in four countries and three languages, was fated to be misunderstood from the start.His first suggestion was to create an independent body so users could appeal Facebook’s moderation decisions. Over the past few years, Facebook has caught fire from all sides for its content moderation. Some say hate speech should be censored more aggressively. At the same time, the company has been accused of censoring conservative viewpoints. And for years, it has been roundly criticized for its puritanical ban on female nipples.But if Facebook had its way, the ultimate authority would no longer lie with Facebook — or Twitter or YouTube or other competitors. That job would fall to unspecified “regulators.”“Regulation could set baselines for what’s prohibited and require companies to build systems for keeping harmful content to a bare minimum,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. For a company exhausted by a year of scandal, a regulatory scapegoat is just what the doctor ordered. If you don’t like what we do, why don’t you try it for a change?American legal experts were incredulous. Daphne Keller of the Stanford Center for Internet and Society accused Facebook of proposing an unconstitutional system, knowing it was impossible. In an initial statement, Ben Wizner of the American Civil Liberties Union said it was a violation of the First Amendment. The Electronic Frontier Foundation claimed it would violate the freedom of expression guaranteed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.Facebook’s head of public policy, Kevin Martin, explained that while Mr. Zuckerberg’s reference to “regulation” might mean actual government intervention in France, Germany and Ireland, it meant only private sector self-regulation in the United States.This kind of faux regulation is nothing new. Among the examples cited were Finra, a nongovernmental financial industry “regulator”; the Motion Picture Association of America, which rates films; and the Entertainment Software Rating Board, which rates video games. (After this clarification, the A.C.L.U.’s Mr. Wizner agreed that independent bodies like the M.P.A.A. are not unconstitutional).But none of these examples deal with directly regulating speech. Social media content moderation is a different beast entirely. Slapping a label on a video game isn’t the same as banning distribution of the video game.Facebook avoided bringing up the Hays Code, the closest corollary to what they propose. The M.P.A.A.’s current rating system is a pale shadow of Hollywood’s old Hays Code, the now-laughable list of rules that for years had onscreen husbands and wives sleeping in separate beds.The Code was developed voluntarily by the studios in hopes of avoiding government censorship. It zealously policed depictions of romance, crime, law enforcement and the clergy. When the Supreme Court held that motion pictures were protected by the First Amendment in 1952, enforcement of the code diminished. Facebook’s proposal is a bow to public opinion. Last year, a coalition of advocacy groups published the Santa Clara Principles — new baseline rules for how content moderation should work. The principles focus most heavily on the right to appeal decisions — particularly in conjunction with “new independent self-regulatory mechanisms” created in collaboration with industry.All this sounds like what The Verge’s Casey Newton calls “a Facebook Supreme Court. ” It’s almost as though the Santa Clara Principles were developed by a room full of lawyers. Hammer, meet nail.Due process would be much welcomed in a world where people believe simultaneously that Facebook takes down too little content or too much. But due process is costly, even after removing high-billing lawyers from the equation. Consider that the Supreme Court, with a budget of nearly $90 million, receives 8,000 petitions a year — most of which are rejected. Meanwhile, according to a class-action lawsuit filed by an ex-Facebook moderator, “moderators are asked to review more than 10 million potentially rule-breaking posts per week.”No wonder content moderation on the big platforms doesn’t so much resemble an unpleasant visit to the Department of Motor Vehicles as it does a re-enactment of the horror film “The Purge.” Due process is a luxury good.We’re not likely to see a Facebook Supreme Court — not an American one, in any event. The Hays Code died after the First Amendment was extended to movies; a Hays Code for the internet will probably be dead on arrival. In a confused, fractured world, Facebook would be glad to stick to a single global standard. This is perhaps why Mr. Zuckerberg offers full-throated praise of the European Union’s privacy standard, the General Data Protection Regulation, in his op-ed. The fracture of the internet into different spheres of influence would be bad for his business, and to that end, the company would much rather impose European sensibilities on the American internet than deal with multiple standards. So, while the American government has its hands tied behind its back by the Constitution, the French, the Germans and the Irish will set their own bar for online speech. In the future, American speech — at least online — may be governed by Europe. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Jamie CondliffeEach week, we review the week’s news, offering analysis about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi, I’m Jamie Condliffe. Greetings from London. Here’s a look at the week’s tech news:Mark Zuckerberg has a vision that he’d like Congress to share.Lawmakers seem to agree that there are too few tech companies with too much power, and that Big Tech needs to be regulated. What they can’t agree on is how do it: Break companies up, tax them more, apply privacy rules, remove liability protections. The list goes on. There are lots of options, none particularly well developed, and little consensus on what might work.Mr. Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, appeared to take advantage of this when he made his own proposal for regulation in a Washington Post op-ed. According to Corynne McSherry, the legal director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a digital rights group, Mr. Zuckerberg’s proposals were “an effort to get ahead” of the many suggestions already on the table and “shape what happens down the pike.”The proposals were not earth-shattering; most had been suggested by policymakers already, or even put into effect in other parts of the world. But Mr. Zuckerberg fleshed them out into one of the more actionable calls for tech regulation that we’ve yet seen.They may seem like an appealing first draft of the rules to some lawmakers. An obvious question is: Should they be?“Legislation is written by legislators, and that is what they’re elected to do — no industry can replace that,” said Jason Oxman, the chief executive of the Information Technology Industry Council, a trade association. He added that “the tech industry will want to make its voice heard,” and that “it’s certainly our hope that Congress will balance a need to encourage innovation” with issues like maintaining privacy.Ms. McSherry said she was “very concerned” about the idea that policymakers might look to the chief executives of Silicon Valley for guidance on what they should do.“It’s sort of asking the foxes how best to guard the henhouse,” she said.My colleague Mike Isaac read between the lines of what Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. And all of his proposals appear to suggest regulation that would strengthen Facebook — by allowing Facebook to squash competitors, say, or better enable it to meld its main platform with its other properties, Instagram and WhatsApp.If regulation is to genuinely curb Big Tech’s power, Congress may be better served by spending less time on theatrical tech C.E.O. testimony and more time listening to the technologists who built the systems they’re trying to regulate and to the people who use them.Don’t panic, but some stickers could help run an autonomous car off the road.Driverless cars use artificial intelligence, often based on so-called neural networks, to interpret camera images. Such software can identify a stop sign. But small visual tweaks to an object, barely observable to humans, can fire connections in neural networks to convince them they’re looking at something else, like a speed-limit sign.Researchers from the Keen Security Lab, part of the technology company Tencent, reported that a similar trick forced an autonomous car to switch lanes. Tesla’s Autopilot software, they showed, uses only camera data to detect lanes, and small visual tweaks to a road surface could cause its neural networks to think road markings were veering. In tests, stickers on a road caused a Tesla Model S in Autopilot mode to swerve into another lane.Tesla said in a statement that “a driver can easily override Autopilot at any time by using the steering wheel or brakes and should always be prepared to do so.”But it demonstrates the fragility of current A.I. “You would expect the system to behave robustly,” said Marta Kwiatkowska, a professor of computing systems at the University of Oxford. “If you change the input very slightly, the output should change only very slightly.”Solving the problem isn’t just about improving A.I. The entire system needs to be made more robust by creating additional checks using other sensors, Ms. Kwiatkowska said. “We need to engineer these systems better,” she said.There’s a lot of awful stuff online. Not liking it is easy. Actually overcoming it is hard.Silicon Valley workers are aware of the problem. On Tuesday, Bloomberg published a report that said YouTube executives had ignored employee proposals to “change recommendations and curb conspiracies.” Their suggestions were reportedly “sacrificed for engagement.”Executives, like YouTube’s chief product officer, Neal Mohan, insist that the algorithms may be designed to keep people watching but not to recommend things like extremist content, even if that’s what they end up doing. After all, it “doesn’t monetize,” he said, because advertisers “don’t want to be associated with this sort of content.”But recommend they do, so calls for rules that force content takedowns are unsurprising. The most recent: a law passed in Australia on Thursday, which threatens big fines for companies if they fail to swiftly remove violent material.Sadly, it may not be that easy to solve the whole harmful content problem:■ First, defining “harmful” is a minefield. As Ms. McSherry of the Electronic Frontier Foundation put it to me, one person’s harmful content can be another’s political expression.■ That feeds a second issue: In the United States, moves toward mandatory takedowns of specific kinds of content could quickly run afoul of the First Amendment.■ Third, the technical challenge is huge. Tech companies have struggled for years to do it with the most troubling of content, and promises that A.I. will solve the problem have yet to bear fruit.None of this excuses the proliferation of harmful content online. But it helps explain why progress is so slow.Facebook user data spilled out again. Researchers found records for hundreds of millions of users stored publicly by a third party on Amazon’s cloud servers. (Also: Facebook might start a news service.)Wall Street is getting cold feet over cryptocurrencies. The plans of big banks are faltering, showing how hard it is to take a fringe technology into mainstream finance.What actually happens in a venture capital pitch? This, according to Wired.Washington is preparing for a 5G future including Huawei. The world doesn’t hear America’s security concerns, so the government is reportedly coming to terms with using “dirty networks.” (Also: Chicago and Minneapolis became the first cities in the United States to have 5G.)The biggest lobbyist for New York’s congestion charge? Uber, which spent $2 million backing the tolls. It’s trying to fend off claims that it causes congestion.A.I. experts want Amazon to stop selling facial recognition software to law enforcement. They argue that it is biased against women and people of color.Banning Netflix from the Oscars could violate antitrust laws. An exclusion that crimps movie sales could be anticompetitive.Want a smart home but don’t know where to start? Allow us to be your guide.Jamie Condliffe is editor of the DealBook newsletter. He also writes the weekly Bits newsletter. Follow him on Twitter here: @jme_c.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byTimes InsiderJake Orta was not aware he was searching the bins of Mark Zuckerberg’s house until we told him who owned the place.By Thomas FullerTimes Insider explains who we are and what we do, and delivers behind-the-scenes insights into how our journalism comes together.Talk about your plenty and talk about your ills,One man gathers what another man spills — “St. Stephen,” The Grateful DeadAround two years ago, a reporter who had just joined The Times, Sheera Frenkel, told me she had heard that trash pickers in San Francisco were congregating at the dumpsters of tech companies because the food they threw away was high quality. I was intrigued by this and over the next year, whenever I had a free evening, I hung out near the dumpsters of Twitter and smaller tech companies, talking to trash pickers and the homeless.Recyclers came for the plentiful cardboard and cans, but I never found evidence that tech companies were throwing out particularly good food on a mass scale. In fact it was the contrary: I discovered nonprofit organizations — like Replate, founded by a Syrian migrant who had studied at the University of California, Berkeley — that collect uneaten food from tech companies and deliver it to homeless shelters and soup kitchens across the San Francisco Bay Area.But my informal investigations got me interested in the world of trash picking and eventually led to my recent article about Jake Orta, an Air Force veteran turned full-time trash picker who lives three blocks from the well-fenced house of Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder.Trash picking is nothing new in San Francisco. Generations have collected everything from furniture and appliances to lumber from the city’s sidewalks and dumpsters.But these days garbage picking is juxtaposed with the extreme wealth that has pushed up housing costs in San Francisco to the point where a family of four earning less than $117,400 is eligible for low-income housing.I met many trash pickers over the past two years. Some were reluctant to give their names. Others moved away. I was introduced to Mr. Orta by Nick Marzano, an Australian photographer who documents trash picking in his nonprofit magazine, Mission Gold.Taciturn and mission-driven, Mr. Orta is a Texas native who in addition to serving in the military spent time as a cook, but fell into homelessness and substance abuse.During a particularly rainy San Francisco winter, Jim Wilson, our bureau photographer, and I wandered the slick streets of the Mission and the hills around Dolores Park with Mr. Orta as he scoured garbage bins for things he could sell.There are parts of San Francisco, like Nob Hill and Pacific Heights, that have long been known for mansions and luxury hotels. Mr. Orta’s neighborhood is in full-blown transition, an uneasy blend of crumbling tenements and freshly painted restored Victorian homes; grocery shops catering to the Latino working class and boutiques selling “small-batch chocolates,” designer sunglasses and fine leather shoes.In the early evening, when Mr. Orta begins his rounds, Wi-Fi-equipped buses swing around tight corners, ready to disgorge tech workers from Silicon Valley.In a city where nearly everything can be done with an app, Mr. Orta does not have a phone. So coordinating with him was difficult. We set a time to meet at his apartment and hoped he would be there. Often he was not.When his beloved Dallas Cowboys lost to the Los Angeles Rams in the playoffs in January, Mr. Orta could not be roused from his small studio apartment.He is not a class warrior, nor is he particularly opinionated about politics or income inequality. He was not aware he was searching the bins of Mr. Zuckerberg’s house until we told him who owned the place.And I found him to be ambivalent about trash picking, which he has been doing full time for six years. On some days he described it as an addiction. He was excited about what he might find on his treks through the city.On other days he said his dream was to go back into the food business.“I want to get a food truck and make Texas-style brisket,” he told me one night as he pulled a suitcase with a missing wheel that he had just retrieved from a garbage bin.“This,” he said looking back at the suitcase, “is not my ultimate goal.”Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.Thomas Fuller is the San Francisco bureau chief. He has spent the past two decades in postings abroad for The Times and the International Herald Tribune in Europe and, most recently, in Southeast Asia.  @thomasfullerNYT • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael LaForgia, Matthew Rosenberg and Gabriel J.X. DanceFederal prosecutors are conducting a criminal investigation into data deals Facebook struck with some of the world’s largest technology companies, intensifying scrutiny of the social media giant’s business practices as it seeks to rebound from a year of scandal and setbacks.A grand jury in New York has subpoenaed records from at least two prominent makers of smartphones and other devices, according to two people who were familiar with the requests and who insisted on anonymity to discuss confidential legal matters. Both companies had entered into partnerships with Facebook, gaining broad access to the personal information of hundreds of millions of its users.The companies were among more than 150, including Amazon, Apple, Microsoft and Sony, that had cut sharing deals with the world’s dominant social media platform. The agreements, previously reported in The New York Times, let the companies see users’ friends, contact information and other data, sometimes without consent. Facebook has phased out most of the partnerships over the past two years.“We are cooperating with investigators and take those probes seriously,” a Facebook spokesman said in a statement. “We’ve provided public testimony, answered questions and pledged that we will continue to do so.”[Read Brian Chen’s story on what he found when he downloaded his Facebook data.]It is not clear when the grand jury inquiry, overseen by prosecutors with the United States attorney’s office for the Eastern District of New York, began or exactly what it is focusing on. Facebook was already facing scrutiny by the Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission. And the Justice Department’s securities fraud unit began investigating it after reports that Cambridge Analytica, a political consulting firm, had improperly obtained the Facebook data of 87 million people and used it to build tools that helped President Trump’s election campaign.The Justice Department and the Eastern District declined to comment for this article.The Cambridge investigation, still active, is being run by prosecutors from the Northern District of California. One former Cambridge employee said investigators questioned him as recently as late February. He and three other witnesses in the case, speaking on the condition of anonymity so they would not anger prosecutors, said a significant line of inquiry involved Facebook’s claims that it was misled by Cambridge.[Read more on the 5 ways Facebook shared your data.]In public statements, Facebook executives had said that Cambridge told the company it was gathering data only for academic purposes. But the fine print accompanying a quiz app that collected the information said it could also be used commercially. Selling user data would have violated Facebook’s rules at the time, yet the social network does not appear to have regularly checked that apps were complying. Facebook deleted the quiz app in December 2015.The disclosures about Cambridge last year thrust Facebook into the worst crisis of its history. Then came news reports last June and December that Facebook had given business partners — including makers of smartphones, tablets and other devices — deep access to users’ personal information, letting some companies effectively override users’ privacy settings.The sharing deals empowered Microsoft’s Bing search engine to map out the friends of virtually all Facebook users without their explicit consent, and allowed Amazon to obtain users’ names and contact information through their friends. Apple was able to hide from Facebook users all indicators that its devices were even asking for data.Privacy advocates said the partnerships seemed to violate a 2011 consent agreement between Facebook and the F.T.C., stemming from allegations that the company had shared data in ways that deceived consumers. The deals also appeared to contradict statements by Mark Zuckerberg and other executives that Facebook had clamped down several years ago on sharing the data of users’ friends with outside developers.F.T.C. officials, who spent the past year investigating whether Facebook violated the 2011 agreement, are now weighing the sharing deals as they negotiate a possible multibillion-dollar fine. That would be the largest such penalty ever imposed by the trade regulator.Facebook has aggressively defended the partnerships, saying they were permitted under a provision in the F.T.C. agreement that covered service providers — companies that acted as extensions of the social network.The company has taken steps in the past year to tackle data misuse and misinformation. Last week, Mr. Zuckerberg unveiled a plan that would begin to pivot Facebook away from being a platform for public sharing and put more emphasis on private communications.Nicholas Confessore, Alan Feuer and Rebecca R. Ruiz contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAdd a criminal investigation to the list of technical difficulties and PR disasters. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. Exactly when did Facebook become the Job of internet companies?Just like the beleaguered biblical character who endured woe after woe at God’s behest, this social media giant finds itself repeatedly hit by bad news. The difference is that Job was blameless while Facebook has brought many of these disasters upon itself.The biggest recent blow was a report on Wednesday that federal prosecutors in the Eastern District of New York were conducting a criminal investigation into deals Facebook had made with other companies that gave them access to data, allegedly without the consent of users.Other calamities within the last week alone include a report from the British government accusing Facebook and other companies of hindering consumer choice and stifling innovation and calling for strong regulation; Facebook managing to look as if it was trying to block Senator Elizabeth Warren’s attempt to advertise her plan to break up big tech companies like Facebook on Facebook; its services, including the popular Instagram app, going down around the globe, and on Thursday, the announced departures of Chris Cox, Facebook’s powerful chief product officer, and Chris Daniels, the boss of WhatsApp — a giant neon sign that the company is in pain. I think we can safely say that only Aunt Becky from “Full House” — that would be Lori Loughlin, captain of the college admissions bad parenting squad — is having a worse time this week. The Warren ad mess appears to reflect sloppiness by Facebook — she used its logo without permission in some ads, and the company typically pulls down those fast. They have since been restored. And the breakdown? The company has ruled out an outside attack, so it just looks like some Facebook technical issue.But the other developments are more serious for the company. The 150-page report from the chancellor of the Exchequer in Britain calls for giving users the ability to move data to third parties, making that data available to rivals and creating a code of conduct that includes fines for violations.Senator Warren has gone further by calling for both a breakup of business units and also an unwinding of acquisitions.Like Facebook’s purchase of Instagram. Like Facebook’s purchase of WhatsApp. Those.Basically, she is aiming directly at the social giant’s future, which Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder and chief executive, pretty much admitted last week when he wrote a memo about integrating those purchases and shifting the platform to a focus on privacy rather than public sharing.That memo became more interesting to me after The New York Times reported on the new criminal investigation in the Eastern District. Facebook was already lousy with active investigations led by an alphabet of federal agencies including the Federal Trade Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission, as well state inquiries and tons of lawsuits. What’s more, federal prosecutors in the Northern District of California are looking into whether Facebook was in fact misled by Cambridge Analytica or if it knew more than it has acknowledged. But that inquiry has been only flirting with the idea of criminal culpability. The new one revealed on Wednesday is a significant escalation for the company.Let’s be clear: This is a criminal investigation, not an oops-we-made-another-sloppy-error one. Which is why Facebook is trying so mightily to lump it in with the other inquiries.“It has already been reported that there are ongoing federal investigations, including by the Department of Justice,” a Facebook representative said in a statement. “As we have said before, we are cooperating with investigators and take these probes seriously. We’ve provided public testimony, answered questions, and pledged that we will continue to do so.”But the Eastern District inquiry is not the same, and this is new and worrisome territory for Facebook.Criminal anything is scary enough, but this news will also have an impact on its management’s ability to concentrate on creating innovative products or buying companies to help it get to the next phase of the always-changing tech game. That is no small thing. As the British report pointed out, there have been 400 acquisitions in tech, none of which has been rejected by regulators. That will surely no longer be the case for Facebook.The departure of the two Facebook managers is also a distraction; the internal situation is looking as unstable as the external. All this is a reminder of what happened almost two decades ago when Microsoft was under investigation for anti-competitive behavior and monopoly practices. Back then, the company was hit by the press and regulators daily, which drastically slowed its momentum.As the accusations piled up, Microsoft lost people’s trust. Of all the consequences that Facebook faces, this would be the most damaging.You can’t calculate trust by coding or algorithms. But Facebook is clearly losing it. Everyone is beginning to assume the worst, even if it is not fair. What’s ironic is that this is all escalating when it’s evident that the management of the company does seem to get that it needs to change and quickly.“Mark knows he is over a barrel,” said one person familiar with Mr. Zuckerberg’s thinking. “That has sunk in very much now.”Good, because such self-reflection has been painfully slow for Mr. Zuckerberg and others at Facebook.This doesn’t mean the situation is hopeless for the company. Despite being seen as the font of all that was bad with tech way back in 2001, Microsoft recovered nicely and is today considered one of tech’s most upstanding citizens. Mr. Zuckerberg may be able to pull something similar off. After all, this is one guy we can be sure didn’t need to bribe his way into Harvard.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBefore you post that baby bump or college acceptance letter online, remember how much fun it used to be to share in person. By KJ Dell’AntoniaMs. Dell'Antonia is a novelist who writes frequently about parenthood.My kids have had some good news lately. Academic triumphs, hockey tournament wins, even a little college admissions excitement. They’ve had rough moments too, and bittersweet ones. There have been last games and disappointments and unwashed dishes galore. If you’re a friend, or even somebody who knows my mom and struck up a friendly conversation in line at the grocery store, I’d love to talk to you about any of it. I might even show you pictures.But I’m not going to post them on social media. Because I tried that for a while, and I came to a simple conclusion about getting the reactions of friends, family and acquaintances via emojis and exclamations points rather than hugs and actual exclamations. It’s no fun. And I don’t want to do it any more.I’m not the only one pulling back from social media. While around two-thirds of American adults use Facebook, the way many of us use it has shifted in recent years. About 40 percent of adult users report taking a break from checking Facebook for several weeks or more, and 26 percent tell researchers they’ve deleted the app from their phone at some point in the past year.Some have changed their behavior because of Facebook’s lax record on protecting user data: More than half of adult users have adjusted their privacy settings in the past year. Others seem more concerned with how the platform makes them act and feel. Either way, pulling back on social media is a way to embrace your family’s privacy. “I have definitely seen an evolution toward sharing less,” said Julianna Miner, an adjunct professor of global and community health at George Mason University and the author of the forthcoming “Raising a Screen-Smart Kid: Embrace the Good and Avoid the Bad in the Digital Age.” She added, “It’s hard to tell if the changes are a response to the security breaches, or a result of people just getting tired of it.” Even Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, seems to suspect it’s at least in part the latter — that after experimenting with living our lives in a larger online sphere for over a decade, many of us are ready to return to the more intimate groups where humans have long thrived. In a recent blog post, Mr. Zuckerberg announced plans to emphasize private conversations and smaller communities on the platform. Interacting on Facebook, he wrote, “will become a fundamentally more private experience” — less “town square,” more “living room.”[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]That’s a shift I’ve already made for myself, and since doing so, I find myself asking why I embraced my personal soapbox in that online square in the first place. The more I reserve both good news and personal challenges for sharing directly with friends, the more I see that the digital world never offered the same satisfaction or support. Instead, I lost out on moments of seeing friends’ faces light up at joyful news, and frequently found myself wishing that not everyone within my network had been privy to a rant or disappointment.“There’s plenty of evidence that interpersonal, face-to-face interactions yield a stronger neural response than anything you can do online,” said Ms. Miner. “Online empathy is worth something to us, but not as much. It takes something like six virtual hugs to equal one real hug.” Time spent seeking those virtual hugs can take us outside the world we’re living in, and draw us back to our phones (which, of course, is the reason many networks offer those bursts of feedback in the first place).“Ultimately, you’re not just giving social media the time it takes you to post,” said Stacey Steinberg, the associate director of the Center on Children and Families at the University of Florida Levin College of Law and the author of a paper on the topic called “Sharenting: Children’s Privacy in the Age of Social Media.” “The interaction doesn’t end the minute you press share,” she said. “Some part of your mind is waiting for responses, and that amounts to a small distraction that takes us away from whatever else we would be engaged in.” Once we post that image of our toddler flossing, we’re no longer entirely watching him dance. Some part of us is in the digital realm, waiting to have our delight validated.That validation can be satisfying, but the emotion is fleeting, like the sugar rush that comes from replacing a real breakfast with a Pop-Tart. Watching your mother’s reaction to the same video, though, brings a different kind of pleasure. “I see parents sharing differently than I did five years ago,” said Ms. Steinberg. “We’re looking for smaller audiences and ways to share just with close friends.”She also warned that even seemingly innocuous public updates have long shadows. “You could have a child who was a star baseball player and later decides to make a change, still being asked by relative strangers about his batting average,” she said. “Or one who decides on a college, and then changes her mind. Decisions are complex. Lives are complex. Marie Kondo-ing your Facebook page is not so easy.”There are exceptions. Facebook shines as an arena for professional connection and promotion, of course. For those of us with children who have special needs, it can offer an invaluable community of support. And for the very worst of bad news — for calamities or illnesses or deaths — Facebook can help users speedily share updates, ask for help and share obituaries and memories.Cal Newport, the author of “Digital Minimalism: Choosing a Focused Life in a Noisy World,” suggests that when we evaluate the ways we use the social media tools available to us, we ask ourselves if those tools are the best ways to achieve our goals. In those cases, the answer is yes. But for sharing personal moments, for venting, for getting good advice on parenting challenges while feeling supported in our tougher moments? I’ve found that real life, face-to-face, hug-to-hug contact offers more bang for my buck than anything on a screen ever could. Why cheat yourself out of those pleasures for the momentary high of a pile of “likes”?Recently, I ran into an acquaintance while waiting for my order at a local restaurant. “Congratulations,” she said, warmly. I racked my brain. I’d sold a book that week, but the information wasn’t public. I wasn’t pregnant, didn’t have a new job, had not won the lottery. My takeout ordering skills didn’t really seem worthy of note, and in fact I probably had asked for too much food, as I usually do. I wanted to talk more about this happy news, but what were we talking about? Fortunately, she went on, “Your son must be so thrilled.”Right. My oldest — admitted to college. He was thrilled, and so were we, and I said so. But how did she know?My son told her daughter, one of his classmates, and her daughter told her.Perfect.KJ Dell’Antonia is the author of “How to Be a Happier Parent” and the forthcoming novel “The Chicken Sisters.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. (Was this email forwarded to you? Sign up here.)Facebook plans to start shifting people toward private messaging and away from the public broadcasting on which its business has been built, Mike Isaac of the NYT reports:• Mark Zuckerberg said yesterday that the company “would focus on private and encrypted communications, in which users message mostly smaller groups of people they know.”• “Unlike publicly shared posts that are kept as users’ permanent records, the communications could also be deleted after a certain period of time.”• “He said Facebook would achieve the shift partly by integrating Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger so that users worldwide could easily message one another across the networks.”• That, Mr. Zuckerberg said, would make Facebook a “living room,” rather than a “town square.”Facebook’s declining public perception, fueled by fake news and data privacy scandals, is driving the shift. “Frankly we don’t currently have a strong reputation for building privacy protective services,” Mr. Zuckerberg said. To grow, and roll out new technologies like its reported cryptocurrency, the company needs to regain trust.But plenty of questions remain:• What’s the business model? Most of the company’s current profits come from openly sharing content and displaying targeted ads, which doesn’t fit with the privacy push. Mr. Zuckerberg argued that there were “all kinds of different commerce opportunities” available in a shift to privacy, but didn’t elaborate.• Should its platforms be integrated? It’s not clear that users want Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger to be combined. And Facebook could find itself facing allegations of anti-competitive behavior by tying them together.• When will it happen? Mr. Zuckerberg had promised to improve Facebook’s privacy in the past and then was painfully slow to act. (A “Clear History” tool announced last year still hasn’t arrived.)____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in New York, and Michael J. de la Merced and Jamie Condliffe in London.____________________________Huawei sued the U.S. government yesterday over a ban on government agencies using the Chinese telecom giant’s products because they could violate American national security.The U.S. says Huawei products are a security threat, and could be used by Chinese authorities to spy on telecom networks — though it has yet to produce supporting evidence. Washington has pushed wireless carriers to avoid using the company’s equipment, and urged other countries to follow suit.The lawsuit will force Washington to show its hand. “The U.S. Congress has repeatedly failed to produce any evidence to support its restrictions on Huawei products,” Guo Ping, Huawei’s rotating chairman, said in a statement.Huawei also claims it’s being unfairly singled out in an unconstitutional bill of attainder — where legislation singles out a person or entity for punishment without trial. Mr. Guo said that Congress was acting as “judge, jury and executioner.”But the strategy is risky. Its business practices and relationship with Beijing will be put under the microscope. And legal experts say the lawsuit on its own is unlikely to succeed: The Russian cybersecurity firm Kaspersky Lab lost a similar lawsuit two years ago.Federal regulators plan to roll back regulations on the country’s largest banks and financial firms, making it easier for them to gain approval to raise dividends or buy back their shares.The Fed will reboot its “stress tests” that banks undergo each year. In particular, the Fed won’t give “pass” or “fail” grades for the portion of the tests that measure banks’ ability to keep lending during an economic crisis.Big non-bank firms will also get an easier ride. A federal oversight panel will scrap the “systemically important financial institution” designation, which subjects non-bank firms like insurers and asset managers to intrusive oversight. (It’s largely symbolic: Only four firms had been labeled systemically important and all have successfully argued to shed that status.)This is part of the Trump administration’s effort to relax financial regulations imposed in the wake of the 2008 financial crisis. Officials have sided with the banking industry in arguing that Obama-era rules stifled lenders’ ability to make loans and continue to grow.But critics say it’s risky, and could lead to a less safe, less transparent financial system. Dennis Kelleher of Better Markets, a financial industry watchdog, told the NYT, “The markets are not going to have the full picture.”President Trump’s aggressive fights over trade are driven by a desire to narrow America’s trade deficit, which he sees as a sign of partners taking advantage of the U.S. But the gap between imports and exports has actually widened, leaving the U.S. with a record trade deficit of $891.3 billion, Jim Tankersley and Ana Swanson of the NYT write:• “The increase was driven by some factors outside Mr. Trump’s control, like a global economic slowdown and the relative strength of the United States dollar, both of which weakened overseas demand for American goods.”• “But the widening gap was also exacerbated by Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut,” they add, “and the trade war he escalated last year.”• “Economists have long warned that Mr. Trump’s tax cuts would ultimately exacerbate a trade deficit he has vowed to reduce, as Americans, flush with extra cash, bought more imported goods.”• “By his own metric, the president is failing to right America’s global trading relationships.”But economists aren’t panicking. “I’d rather live in a country that capital is trying to get into, rather than get out of,” Larry Summers, who led the National Economic Council under President Barack Obama, told the NYT. “The reason we have a trade deficit is people are investing in America.”Officials in Brussels have reportedly asked Prime Minister Theresa May to offer new proposals that would convince British lawmakers to back her Brexit deal within the next 48 hours, the BBC reports.“E.U. officials said they would work nonstop over the weekend if ‘acceptable’ ideas were received by Friday to break the deadlock” over issues tied to the Irish border, which have been the main sticking point, according to the broadcaster.But the U.K. has said it already put up “reasonable” proposals to satisfy lawmaker’s concerns about being tied to E.U. rules. (That said, Mrs. May has reportedly outlined steps “to develop technology to keep the Irish border open after Brexit” in the event of no deal, Bloomberg reports.)Unsurprisingly, the E.U. is pessimistic. “There’s increasing concern on the European side that any concessions the bloc would be prepared to give wouldn’t be sufficient to win a majority in the House of Commons,” according to Bloomberg, citing unidentified sources.More: Toyota says it might stop manufacturing cars in Britain in the event of a no-deal Brexit. And the O.E.C.D. has warned that a no-deal departure could cause a recession in the country.The Financial Stability Board will examine whether the $1.4 billion market for leveraged loans — those made to companies with low credit ratings or high debt loads — poses a risk to the global markets, Sam Fleming of the FT reports.• The F.S.B. will focus on collateralized loan obligations, which are bundles of leveraged loans that are sold off in tranches. The regulator “wants to identify the holders of C.L.O.s around the world and assess the risks that investors could pull money from exposed institutions during a severe downturn,” the FT writes.• Investors in C.L.O.s include banks, investment funds and insurers.• Randy Quarles, the chairman of the F.S.B., told the FT, “From a financial stability risk [point of view] we need to know more about that than we do, and we have set up a process at the F.S.B. to understand that.”• “Companies have been amassing cheap loans thanks to low interest rates and loosening lending standards, and in the U.S. nonfinancial corporate debt is now a higher share of gross domestic product than before the crisis,” Mr. Fleming writes.AT&T is rushing to overhaul HBO, and the rest of what was Time Warner, to fight back against Netflix. But Bloomberg Businessweek has taken a look at how the “Game of Thrones” network and its parent company missed opportunities to dominate the streaming wars in the past:• In 1999, HBO’s chief information officer, Michael Gabriel, asked Jeff Bewkes, then the network’s C.E.O., how he wanted to reckon with the internet. “Bewkes wanted HBO to be all in on the internet when the time was right, Gabriel says, but he didn’t want to spend too much money or be premature,” Businessweek reports.• In 2007, “An idea spread through HBO: What if Time Warner bought Netflix? It would be the perfect marriage of art and science and give Time Warner enormous leverage over the downstream markets for TV shows and movies. The concept made its way up the chain of command, where it was duly slain.”• “In a December 2010 New York Times interview, Bewkes, who by then was overseeing all of Time Warner as C.E.O., weighed in on his competitor. ‘It’s a little bit like, Is the Albanian army going to take over the world?’ he said. ‘I don’t think so.’ ”• In the spring of 2014, HBO licensed its older shows to Amazon’s streaming service, giving the network fat fees. But, Businessweek reports, HBO’s in-house streaming team was upset at the arrangement. “Training people to go to Amazon Prime Video to watch classic HBO shows, they worried, could undermine the appeal of HBO’s own internet offerings.”• “HBO still doesn’t have much control over a key aspect of the direct-to-consumer streaming experience — the consumer.”Mike Turner will resign as a director of Barclays.The law firm Sullivan & Cromwell has hired James Bromley from Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton as a partner and co-head of its global restructuring group.Anne Dinning rejoined D.E. Shaw as a member of the hedge fund’s executive committee.Slate hired Jared Hohlt from New York magazine as its new editor in chief, succeeding Julia Turner.Deals• Aon won’t make a takeover bid for a rival insurance broker, Willis Towers Watson. (FT)• Sprint and T-Mobile have reportedly won the backing of the White House for their proposed merger, but have yet to win over the Justice Department or the F.C.C. (Fox Business)• Blackstone is reportedly close to raising $20 billion for its next big private equity fund. (Bloomberg)• Mario Batali has sold his stake in his restaurant empire to his business partners. (NYT)Politics and policy• Michael Cohen is said to have given the House Intelligence Committee evidence that shows President Trump’s lawyers made changes to a knowingly false written statement given to Congress. (NYT)• A House committee voted to advance a bill that would raise the federal minimum wage to $15 by 2024. (Axios)• Senator Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland, says he’s writing legislation that could prevent corporate insiders from selling shares within a certain time period after their companies announce a stock buyback. (CNBC)Tech• Congressional Democrats announced bills that would reinstate net neutrality rules. (Verge)• Facebook might be backing away from its plans to expand into China. (BuzzFeed News)• Just how likely to succeed is Tesla’s new online-only sales strategy? Also: The automaker is facing backlash in China from customers who won’t receive refunds to make up for new price cuts. (NYT, WSJ)• Amazon is closing its pop-up stores in the U.S., though it still has ambitious plans for physical retail. (NYT)Best of the rest• Meet Haven, the health care joint venture of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase. (NYT)• The Fed says that the government shutdown slowed economic activity in some regions. (WSJ)• Carlos Ghosn is out of jail. What happens now? (NYT)• A ranking of the most visible brands in the U.S. placed the government bottom. (Axios)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.You can find live updates throughout the day at nytimes.com/dealbook.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Jamie CondliffeEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Hi. I’m Jamie Condliffe; greetings from London. Here’s a look at the week’s tech news.You can’t have missed it: Facebook plans to shift people toward private messaging and away from the public broadcasting on which its business was built. Think encrypted communications among smaller groups of people, and ephemeral messages that can be deleted. In theory, that change could help the company overcome some of the problems it has faced.But Facebook has promised privacy features before that have never appeared — something skeptics were quick to point out after the plan was revealed on Thursday.“I understand that many people don’t think Facebook can or would even want to build this kind of privacy-focused platform,” Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, wrote in a 3,200-word manifesto describing the shift.If we are to assume he means it, there’s still a huge problem: He lacks a business model.A shift to a private Facebook would crimp its current revenue streams. Most of its profits come from targeted ads enabled by the open sharing of content. In the encrypted future that Mr. Zuckerberg imagines, that will be hard. The company would also effectively rule out expansion into big potential markets like Russia and China, because it won’t run servers in countries with authoritarian governments.So how can it make money? Mr. Zuckerberg mentions commerce and payments, which fits with reports that Facebook is building a cryptocurrency. But that’s all he says, really.Mr. Zuckerberg seems O.K. with the lack of a plan. “The basic way that we’ve approached things is first to focus on building the consumer service that people really want,” he said to Wired. “That will be the foundation. If we do that well, the business will be fine.”Of course, a trick for monetizing private messaging may be hidden in his back pocket. If it isn’t, his critics’ skepticism may be proved right.Earlier in the week, Representative David Cicilline, the Rhode Island Democrat who leads the House antitrust subcommittee, proposed an idea to curb Big Tech’s dominance.During the Great Depression, the Glass-Steagall Act forced banks to separate commercial and investment banking operations. Mr. Cicilline told the Financial Times that something similar could apply to tech.“It’s an interesting idea whether there would be a way to think about separating what platforms do versus people who are selling products and information,” he said.Sadly, this feels like a nonstarter. Splitting the operations of banks was relatively straightforward; the data sales and platform components of companies like Google and Facebook are (whatever Mr. Zuckerberg says) deeply intertwined.Still, it’s probably one of many options. “There aren’t easy answers” to Big Tech antitrust questions, Mr. Cicilline said to Bloomberg Opinion in January. “We’re not going to approach this, like, ‘Here’s my solution.’”He has the wind at his back. Congressional hearings with Facebook and others last year revealed that lawmakers in both parties have antitrust concerns about tech companies. And the Federal Trade Commission recently announced a task force of 17 lawyers dedicated to “monitoring competition in U.S. technology markets.” The commission’s director of competition, Bruce Hoffman, said some companies could be forced to “spin off” previous acquisitions.How far these efforts will go — and how quickly — remains unclear. It may be difficult to prove violation of federal antitrust law until the laws are updated to better apply to technology companies. And splitting a company like Facebook or Google would require costly, lengthy legal battles that the government may yet balk at.Arizona prosecutors said Tuesday that they wouldn’t charge Uber with a crime after one of its autonomous cars hit and killed a pedestrian last year. Instead, they said investigators should look into what the safety driver “would or should have seen that night.”One interesting point about the news was raised by Frank Douma, a researcher at the University of Minnesota’s Center for Transportation Studies:“It’s a very conventional way of thinking to say we can expect and we should expect people to sit and monitor technology that is otherwise doing all the decision-making.”The “handoff problem” — that humans are too easily distracted to safely retake control of an autonomous vehicle in an emergency — is well documented. The Uber accident provided a first glimpse of how the law would deal with that issue. It suggests that, for now, the onus remains on the “driver.”The Chinese telecom giant Huawei sued the United States government on Wednesday over a ban that prevents government agencies from using the company’s products because they may violate national security. Days earlier, Meng Wanzhou, the company’s chief financial officer, sued the Canadian authorities for arresting her.Huawei is aggrieved by the Trump administration’s hardware ban and its lobbying of other governments to shun the company’s products when building 5G wireless data networks. The lawsuits are just one response: A defensive advertising campaign and outspoken interviews were already in play.Those more conventional lobbying approaches may have been working: Countries like Britain and Germany, which have considered the White House’s pleas, have wavered and may ultimately use Huawei hardware.But the lawsuits make Huawei look rash and aggressive. Is that the kind of company a government wants to help build critical infrastructure?The National Security Agency stopped its controversial phone spying. The system, which analyzed logs of Americans’ domestic calls and texts and was introduced to surveil conspirators in Al Qaeda, has been scrapped.Google said it was paying male workers too little. It gave $9.7 million in additional compensation to level things up for 10,677 employees, about 69 percent of them men. But the survey that led to the raises did not address a critical question: Are women hired at a pay grade below their qualifications?Net neutrality is back in Washington. Congressional Democrats announced bills that seek to reinstate net neutrality rules. Whether the bills can pass is another matter.Chinese hackers hit universities. An elaborate set of attacks sought to steal research about military maritime technology.Artificial intelligence cameras can spot shoplifters before they steal. Software can identify “restlessness and other potentially suspicious body language,” according to Bloomberg. You don’t know data overload. Gizmodo invites you to meet the digital hoarders who collect “terabytes of text files.”Jamie Condliffe is editor of the DealBook newsletter. Follow him on Twitter here: @jme_c.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe messaging platform figured out the value of privacy a long time ago.By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. If you want to know why Mark Zuckerberg is suddenly so interested in privacy, I have one word for you: data.“Mark makes decisions based on data and not values,” a person familiar with Facebook’s inner workings said when I asked about the chief executive’s stunning about-face this week on the new trajectory of the social media industry he pretty much founded.I would bet a lot that Mr. Zuckerberg saw the data I have seen that shows that the future is not looking good for the bloated, oversharing, fake-news-spewing, Russian-infected big blue app that made him both rich and powerful and, now, quite vulnerable.[Kara Swisher answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]And what do those numbers say? Well, first and foremost that social media is in big trouble with the young and that it is long past time for it to shift to a privacy-oriented stance that was never part of its DNA, except perhaps as a throwaway line in a news release.While Facebook has always insisted otherwise, its commitment to protecting the information of users has been weak at best since its very founding. But now Mr. Zuckerberg has written a blog post — with not one single trace of irony and with nary a mention of the many privacy abuses he has presided over — announcing that the company would be betting big on private messaging and protected communications for its billions of users.You know, like Snapchat, but on a Facebook scale.Over the years, Facebook has swiped many nifty ideas from Snapchat, the ephemeral messaging platform — which Mr. Zuckerberg actually tried to buy many years ago when it was still a start-up. That has been especially true at the Facebook-owned Instagram, which did a wholesale shoplift of Snapchat’s Stories by creating … wait for it … Instagram Stories!In a podcast interview with me, the Instagram co-founder and former chief executive Kevin Systrom did not even bother to hide the act. He said that he admired the creativity of Evan Spiegel, the Snapchat founder, and that taking a good idea and making it better was a thing that always happened in tech. He compared the Stories feature to a car radio that Instagram had simply improved on. Indeed it did, and it has been a huge hit for Facebook.That’s fair enough, I guess. But this time Mr. Zuckerberg is pilfering so much more, sketching out a future business that looks a lot like Snapchat, with a little bit like China’s WeChat mixed in. And, mostly, not at all like Facebook.The big takeaway is that the penny has finally dropped with Mr. Zuckerberg that messaging and social media are very different to users, as much as he has tried to force them into an unholy mush.All you would have to do to figure that out is ask my 16-year-old. But I recently saw some internal Snapchat data that drove this message home using data from both Snapchat and Facebook Ad Managers. It showed that Snapchat ads reach more 13- to 24-year-olds in the United States than ads on Facebook, Instagram and Messenger combined. Among 13- to 17-year-olds, the delta is even wider.Even if those are Snapchat stats, it is clear that the young demographic that Facebook covets doesn’t much care about public sharing via posting. If it did, would Mr. Zuckerberg have seen the need to make this announcement? He would not, since the ad-heavy Facebook bulletin board is still a huge moneymaker, and it’s much harder to make such scratch from a business focused on private messaging.That has been one of the problems of Snapchat, which is much smaller than Facebook — as well as internal missteps caused by a rotating series of managers and strategies.But Mr. Spiegel’s idea — that people care a lot about privacy and don’t want the information they upload to be sold like a Christmas pig — remains a stellar one. Ironically, Mr. Zuckerberg may turn out to be the one who can make it profitable.So indulge me for a minute with a comparison: Mr. Zuckerberg is to Bill Gates as Mr. Spiegel is to Steve Jobs.Mr. Jobs always had better ideas and vision than Mr. Gates. But Apple spent a long time in dire straits while he pushed his high-level concepts about security, privacy, and design and simplicity.Mr. Gates, on the other hand, was an unqualified genius at business models and systems, and he clearly understood the depressing truth that good enough was good enough for a lot of consumers. Of course, Mr. Jobs’s stunning creativity eventually won out, with the advent of the iPod, which was soon followed by the iPhone, and, well, the rest is history. Mr. Gates and his No. 2 at Microsoft, Steve Ballmer, scoffed at the efforts of Apple before trying to backpedal furiously. It did not work.Remember the Microsoft Zune? Me neither.In a podcast interview last year, Mr. Zuckerberg name-checked Mr. Gates as an important mentor, and he has obviously learned well. He has already shown a talent for turnarounds, shifting the company from desktop to mobile in one of the most impressive management moves in tech history. While he stumbled at first by doing a Facebook phone (I don’t remember that either!), the deft Mr. Zuckerberg quickly recovered and the company has never looked back.And now this, a chance to leave behind all the headaches that come with running an enormous public platform. As I have said before, Facebook is like a megapolis, presided over by Mr. Zuckerberg. Managing it is hard, because it needs a strong police force and competent people to pick up the garbage and working sewers, and there are bad people all over the place. While the growth of this city, let’s call it ZuckTown, has been impressive, it has also been sloppily managed in ways that have hurt society.Maybe the Facebook of the future will be different. That could be a very good thing for the world, and I’m glad that Mr. Zuckerberg seems to have decided that the map laid out by Snapchat is the one to go with — even if he didn’t give Snapchat any credit for it. One person I spoke with likened Mr. Zuckerberg to a captain who has decided not to go down with a ship that has sprung some serious leaks: “He’s just going to jump to another ship rather than fix the first one. And keep on going.”I guess there is not much else to say but: Godspeed, Mark.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Emily FlitterA group of San Francisco Bay Area philanthropists has pledged to spend half a billion dollars to protect and expand affordable housing in the region, according to an announcement on Thursday. A central player in the project is the philanthropy founded by Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan.The effort, called the Partnership for the Bay’s Future, is meant to combat the dizzying ascent of home prices that has run parallel with Silicon Valley’s latest expansion. In November, the median sale price for a home in the Bay Area was $815,000, according to the research firm CoreLogic.The money will seed an investment fund that will work to preserve housing for 175,000 families and add capacity for 8,000 new homes over the next decade through loans and other assistance to community groups. A separate $40 million fund will make grants to local governments and other groups trying to devise policies to protect affordable housing on a large scale.In a news release announcing the partnership, California’s governor, Gavin Newsom, called the move a “bold action.” Mr. Newsom, who has criticized tech companies for not doing enough to help solve a problem they are widely believed to have exacerbated, praised the project’s collaboration of private companies, nonprofits, government agencies and community leaders.Morgan Stanley, Kaiser Permanente, Facebook and Genentech are also contributing to the partnership. But the role that any one company will play is small compared with Microsoft’s pledge last week  to spend $500 million toward affordable housing in the Seattle area.The Bay Area fund’s participants, which include the Ford Foundation and the family charities of the two founders of Hewlett-Packard, say they have raised $260 million so far. The news release said they would “continue to engage new partners and funders.”The question of what the tech industry should do to ease housing crises in tech hubs has roiled Bay Area politics in recent years. In November, after a contentious battle between billionaires for and against the measure, San Francisco voters approved a ballot initiative to raise taxes on big businesses to help increase the city’s budget for homeless services.The city’s middle class has already confronted dislocation. Recently, some people working at places like schools, bookstores and restaurants began moving into dormitories.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Tom BissellZUCKED Waking Up to the Facebook CatastropheBy Roger McNameeThe dystopia George Orwell conjured up in “1984” wasn’t a prediction. It was, instead, a reflection. Newspeak, the Ministry of Truth, the Inner Party, the Outer Party — that novel sampled and remixed a reality that Nazi and Soviet totalitarianism had already made apparent. Scary stuff, certainly, but maybe the more frightening dystopia is the one no one warned you about, the one you wake up one morning to realize you’re living inside.Roger McNamee, an esteemed venture capitalist, would appear to agree. “A dystopian technology future overran our lives before we were ready,” he writes in “Zucked.” Think that sounds like overstatement? Let’s examine the evidence. At its peak the planet’s fourth most valuable company, and arguably its most influential, is controlled almost entirely by a young man with the charisma of a geometry T.A. The totality of this man’s professional life has been running this company, which calls itself “a platform.” Company, platform — whatever it is, it provides a curious service wherein billions of people fill it with content: baby photos, birthday wishes, concert promotions, psychotic premonitions of Jewish lizard-men. No one is paid by the company for this labor; on the contrary, users are rewarded by being tracked across the web, even when logged out, and consequently strip-mined by a complicated artificial intelligence trained to sort surveilled information into approximately 29,000 predictive data points, which are then made available to advertisers and other third parties, who now know everything that can be known about a person without trepanning her skull. Amazingly, none of this is secret, despite the company’s best efforts to keep it so. Somehow, people still use and love this platform.Hostile foreign intelligence services also love this platform, if only because its users have proved shockingly vulnerable to social manipulation — a dark art the company itself has admitted to dabbling in. In 2014, the company set out to learn whether it could make its users sad and angry on purpose. It learned it could. When this astonishing breach of user trust became public, the company claimed it wasn’t a big deal, that many companies did similar things. It was, and they don’t.A tech company founded on creating human connection is now ripping American society apart and compromising our civic foundation, though not because it has overtly wicked intent. As McNamee elucidates, our “democracy has been undermined because of design choices.” Choices including the platform’s pleasurable, frictionless interface, which encourages users to stay and return. It’s no stretch to posit that because human neurotransmitters respond to the platform’s iconic use of a certain shade of blue, and spark with dopamine upon receiving a “like” or “tag” notification, desperate children are now living in cages and a raving madman occupies the Oval Office. Not even Orwell, after a feast of psilocybin, could have predicted this dystopia. This one’s all ours.For any aliens or recently arrived time travelers reading this, the company in question is Facebook, and its young leader Mark Zuckerberg, with whom McNamee has such a long and familiar relationship so as to refer to him throughout by his diminutive, Zuck. In 2006, McNamee writes, he counseled the 22-year-old C.E.O. against selling Facebook to Yahoo for a billion dollars. “I don’t want to disappoint everyone,” Zuckerberg said. McNamee urged him to look beyond that and “keep Facebook independent.” Zuck heeded McNamee’s advice, and here we are.McNamee also profited from this mentorship. Along with his venture capital firm, Elevation Partners, the author made a fortune off an early investment in Zuckerberg’s company, a subject about which he is now suitably circumspect, given his belief that Facebook, along with Google and other tech giants, today represents “the greatest threat to the global order in my lifetime.” A self-identified “capitalist,” McNamee currently advocates breaking up Facebook’s data monopoly by force, and heavily regulating its appalling business practices. “Zucked” is thus a candid and highly entertaining explanation of how and why a man who spent decades picking tech winners and cheering his industry on has been carried to the shore of social activism.McNamee saves his most conspicuous outrage for Facebook’s amoral leadership at the hands of not just Zuckerberg but also his chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, whom McNamee recommended Zuck hire before she could take a job at The Washington Post. McNamee describes their grip on the company as “the most centralized decision-making structure I have ever encountered in a large company.” Their power dyad is possible only because Facebook’s “core platform,” as McNamee puts it, is relatively simple: It “consists of a product and a monetization scheme.” Non-tech companies with comparable global reach (Coca-Cola, Exxon) must deal with complex real-world infrastructure issues as well as the needs of a highly diverse work force. Large corporations also typically create interrelated eddies of economic activity, whereas Facebook’s business model is founded upon sucking the economic activity out of otherwise productive workers. Most troubling of all, a company whose product is used by one-third of the planet has only 30,000 employees. In every imaginable sense, Facebook is a Borg-like drain on the world’s economy. It doesn’t make you better and likely makes you worse. Unlike Exxon, it can’t even get you to Albuquerque.The story of Facebook has been told many times before, but McNamee does a superb job of contextualizing its rise within the proper technological history. Without the advents of the iPhone, cloud data storage and the industry’s “lean start-up” model, Facebook may well have wandered down the bleak path of the short-lived early-2000s social media entities Myspace and Friendster. McNamee also takes care to remind the reader of the telltale heart (or lack thereof) beating beneath the floorboards of Facebook headquarters: Its first iteration, Facemash, invited Harvard students to compare photos of female classmates — photos Zuckerberg stole from online student housing directories — for the high cause of determining who was hotter. Yes, the world’s fourth most valuable company can trace its origins to the frustrated misogyny of an ur-incel. The moral vacuousness Zuckerberg displayed as a young adult should have told us something about how he and many other young “disrupters” intended to operate. As McNamee writes, “You can imagine how attractive a philosophy that absolves practitioners of responsibility for the impact of their actions on others would be to entrepreneurs and investors in Silicon Valley.”The most stirring parts of the book are those in which McNamee makes the angry but measured argument that “social media has enabled personal views that had previously been kept in check by social pressure.” The kook we will always have with us, to paraphrase Jesus, but the kooks of yore had to work to maintain their kookery and locate fellow kooks. They had to pick up their kook phone, subscribe to the kook newsletter, drive to the kook convention. Nowadays, all the kook has to do is log in to Facebook, where his feed will be enlivened by the chatter of fellow — and likely more extreme — kooks, toward which Facebook’s algorithms helpfully steer him. Zuckerberg et al. probably didn’t set out to transform American neo-Nazism into this generation’s punk rock, but the platforms they created have generated “a feedback loop that reinforces and amplifies ideas with a speed and at a scale that are unprecedented.”McNamee’s book is not merely the cri de coeur of a forsworn tech optimist zinged by moral conscience. It’s also a robust and helpful itemization of the ways Facebook could be brought to heel. McNamee clearly believes the company can be made into something more benign, and perhaps even socially beneficial. That may or may not be true, but the damage it has already done is not precisely containable. Considering the high likelihood that Russian activity on Facebook may have tipped the 2016 election to Donald Trump, the damage is already of generational measure.But here’s the bizarre quirk of the Facebook dystopia, whose sheer perversity would have likely pleased Orwell: It’s all Big and no Brother. Our time and lives are the company’s only currency. Without our continued attention, Facebook quite literally has nothing, and its empire could be brought down with a feather. Now, blow.Tom Bissell is the author, most recently, of “Apostle.”ZUCKED Waking Up to the Facebook Catastrophe By Roger McNamee 336 pp. Penguin Press. $28Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhy I am calling on the Federal Trade Commission to investigate Facebook for violating antitrust laws.By David N. CicillineMr. Cicilline, a member of the House of Representatives from Rhode Island, is chairman of the House Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial and Administrative Law.A year ago, the world learned that Facebook allowed a political consulting company called Cambridge Analytica to exploit the personal information of up to 87 million users, to obtain data that would help the company’s clients “fight a culture war” in America.Since then, a torrent of reports has revealed that the Cambridge Analytica scandal was part of a much broader pattern of misconduct by Facebook.It has paid teenagers to spy on their behavior, even asking users “to screenshot their Amazon order history page,” according to the website TechCrunch. The company has secretly collected highly sensitive data through the back doors of other apps, such as ovulation trackers, to target ads at users “even if no Facebook account is used to log in and if the end user isn’t a Facebook member,” The Wall Street Journal reported. And in its pursuit of dominance, Facebook gave at least 60 device makers direct access to its users’ data. Those actions are under criminal investigation, The Times reported last week. Facebook has also engaged in campaigns to obstruct congressional oversight and to smear and discredit critics — tactics reminiscent of the big tobacco playbook.After each misdeed becomes public, Facebook alternates between denial, hollow promises and apology campaigns.But nothing changes. That’s why, as chairman of the House Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial and Administrative Law, I am calling for an investigation into whether Facebook’s conduct has violated antitrust laws.Since the Cambridge Analytica scandal, the Federal Trade Commission has confirmed that it is investigating Facebook to determine whether it violated a consent order it entered into with the commission in 2011. While we await the outcome of the commission’s investigation, other enforcement agencies and government authorities have already taken action. The attorney general for the District of Columbia filed a complaint months ago. German antitrust authorities issued an order finding that Facebook abused its dominance and limiting Facebook’s data collection practices. And an investigation by the British Parliament compared Facebook to a company of “digital gangsters” that considers itself “ahead of and beyond the law.”The F.T.C. is facing a massive credibility crisis.For years, privacy advocates have alerted the commission that Facebook was likely violating its commitments under the agreement. Not only did the commission fail to enforce its order, but by failing to block Facebook’s acquisition of WhatsApp and Instagram, it enabled Facebook to extend its dominance.How the commission chooses to respond to Facebook’s repeated abuses will determine whether it is willing or able to promote competition and protect consumers. If the commission does conclude that Facebook has violated the consent order, how it fixes this problem through a legal remedy will be a test of its effectiveness. The commission has the authority to impose substantial fines on Facebook. Given that the corporation had more than $55 billion in revenue in 2018 alone, even a fine in the low billions of dollars will amount to a slap on the wrist, a mere cost of doing business.Moreover, because Facebook is a repeat offender, it is critical that the commission’s response is strong enough to prevent future violations. America’s laws are not suggestions. When a company has repeatedly shown contempt for its legal commitments, the remedy must change how the company operates. Enforcement agencies can do this through deep reforms of the company’s structure. This includes removing members of the company’s board, or even top executives, along with other changes to the company’s business model to address dysfunction at the top.The F.T.C. can also pursue other ways to fix this problem. For example, after German antitrust enforcers found that Facebook abused its dominant market position, it required Facebook to stop combining different sources of its users’ data without their consent.But the commission should not stop there. There is also mounting evidence of anticompetitive conduct by Facebook that may warrant scrutiny by federal antitrust enforcers. For example, the social media goliath has reportedly systematically spied on its rivals, giving it valuable information on how people used competitive products.Facebook’s predatory acquisition strategy has also arguably resulted in fewer innovative services. When it bought TBH, a polling app popular with teenagers, Facebook announced that the app would still operate independently and under its own brand. Less than a year later, Facebook scuttled it due to “low usage.”Facebook also appears to have used its dominance to cripple other competitive threats by cutting them off from its massive network. In 2013, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, personally approved the company’s decision to block Vine, a fast-growing rival, from a critical Facebook feature, to the advantage of its own online video service.Finally, in what looks to be a dangerous power grab to head off antitrust action, Facebook recently announced plans to merge Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook into one integrated product, furthering its monopoly power.Together, these reports suggest a disturbing pattern of anticompetitive conduct. Watchdogs and consumers alike report that the quality of Facebook’s products has declined. It has killed innovation and eliminated competitive threats. And the price for advertising on the platform has continued to rise.In other words, there is a smoking gun.American antitrust agencies have not pursued a significant monopoly case in more than two decades, even as corporate concentration and monopoly power have reached historic levels.It’s clear that serious enforcement is long overdue.David N. Cicilline, a member of the House of Representatives, is chairman of the House Subcommittee on Antitrust, Commercial and Administrative Law. The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhen the Chinese government blocks foreign internet companies for political reasons, the United States should treat the tactic as the anticompetitive economic strategy that it is.By Tim WuMr. Wu is a law professor who specializes in technology.As China and the United States engage in high-level negotiations over a possible trade deal, it’s puzzling to see what’s been left off the table: the Chinese internet market. China blocks or hinders nearly every important foreign competitor online, including Google, Facebook, Wikipedia in Chinese, Pinterest, Line (the major Japanese messaging company), Reddit and The New York Times. Even Peppa Pig, a British cartoon character and internet video sensation, has been censored on and off; an editorial in the Communist Party’s official People’s Daily newspaper once warned that she could “destroy children’s youth.”China has long defended its censorship as a political matter, a legitimate attempt to protect citizens from what the government regards as “harmful information,” including material that “spreads unhealthy lifestyles and pop culture.” But you don’t need to be a trade theorist to realize that the censorship is also an extremely effective barrier to international trade. The global internet economy is worth at least $8 trillion and growing, yet the Trump administration has focused chiefly on manufacturing, technology transfers and agriculture, and does not seem to have pressed for concessions on this issue.Sheltered from American, Japanese and European competition, Chinese internet businesses have grown enormously over the past decade. Nine of the world’s 20 largest internet firms, by market value, are now Chinese. Some of this growth reflects the skill and innovation of Chinese engineers, a vibrant start-up culture and the success of Chinese business in catering to local tastes. But it’s hard to believe that this has been unaided by censorship.And the barriers to foreign competition have more than just economic effects. Without any better options, Chinese users are forced to put up with companies like Tencent, which owns the private messaging app WeChat, and the online payment company Ant Financial, whose privacy violations are, amazingly, even more troubling than those of Facebook and Cambridge Analytica. By tolerating Chinese censorship, the United States encourages other countries to do the same.When it joined the World Trade Organization in 2001, China agreed to a broad liberalization of trade in services, including data processing and telecommunications. China’s internet policies must be understood as a violation of these commitments. China will presumably counter that its internet policies are “necessary to protect public morals or to maintain public order,” invoking the relevant exception to the World Trade Organization’s rules. But while that exception might justify bans on gambling sites or even Peppa Pig, in the case of most of China’s internet barriers the real purpose seems to be the protection of homegrown business interests.Why is the United States not demanding change? It’s not as if we lack leverage. Chinese firms like Tencent and the online retailer JD.com have aggressively pursued operations in the United States, seeking to take advantage of our open internet and open market. The Office of the United States Trade Representative even cited Chinese internet blocking as a trade barrier in 2016. Why allow a country to do business here if it won’t let us do business there? The basic principle of trade policy is reciprocity: Lower your barriers and we’ll lower ours. When it comes to the internet economy, the United States has unilaterally disarmed and is being played for a fool.Particularly baffling is the attitude of the major American internet firms, the victims of China’s internet trade policy, whose strategy has largely been one of appeasement. Google did retreat from the Chinese market in 2010 because of concerns about censorship and industrial espionage, and it did complain for a while about Chinese obstructions. Yet last year we learned that Google was effectively giving up the fight, building a censored search engine for the Chinese market and begging for access. Also disappointing has been Facebook’s approach. Even though Facebook has been banned in China for years, Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, has made embarrassing efforts to ingratiate himself with China’s president, Xi Jinping. (At one point gossip pages even reported that Mr. Zuckerberg asked, in vain, for Mr. Xi to give an honorary Chinese name to his unborn child; Mr. Zuckerberg denied that this happened.)Appeasement does not make effective foreign policy or trade policy. The United States, with the world’s largest economy and its most important internet sector, should be negotiating from a position of strength. If the Trump administration wants to be tough with China on trade, it should demand meaningful access to the Chinese internet market, on pain of denial of access to American markets for Chinese firms.That is how trade negotiation has always proceeded, and the internet ought to be no exception. We otherwise run the risk of winning the battle for the past while surrendering the battle for the future.Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, a contributing opinion writer and the author of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — Federal regulators are reportedly considering seeking some kind of oversight of Mark Zuckerberg's leadership of Facebook over the social network giant's mishandling of users' personal information.Discussions between Facebook and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission officials about its data-handing lapses have touched on holding the CEO personally accountable, The Washington Post reported Friday. Zuckerberg controls a majority of Facebook's voting stock and has run the company since starting it at Harvard in 2004.The Post quoted two anonymous sources familiar with the discussions. It said putting restraints on Zuckerberg could send a message to other tech giants that the FTC could hold their executives accountable for privacy misdeeds.The FTC had no comment and Facebook did not immediately respond to a request for comment.The commission opened an investigation into Facebook last year after revelations that data mining firm Cambridge Analytica had gathered details on as many as 87 million Facebook users without their permission.The FTC has been examining whether that massive breakdown violated a settlement that Facebook reached in 2011 after government regulators concluded the Menlo Park, California, company had repeatedly broken its privacy promises to users, who now number 2.3 billion globally.The FTC decree, which runs through 2031, requires that Facebook get its users' consent to share their personal information in ways that aren't allowed by their privacy settings.The Post previously reported the FTC is considering hitting Facebook with a multibillion-dollar fine. That would top its previous record fine of $22.5 million, which it dealt to Google in 2012 for bypassing the privacy controls in Apple's Safari browser.Facebook has in the past year been buffeted by media coverage highlighting what critics call a cavalier attitude toward protecting user privacy and data — and in failing to prevent the dissemination of hate speech and misinformation on the biggest communications medium in history.On Thursday, its Instagram subsidiary said in a blog post that millions more users were affected by a password security lapse than Facebook acknowledged when announcing the problem nearly four weeks ago.In the initial announcement it had said tens of thousands of passwords were stored on the site in plain text, meaning company employees could search them.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Matthew RosenbergWASHINGTON — The academic who helped Cambridge Analytica vacuum up private information from tens of millions of Facebook profiles sued the social media giant on Friday, arguing that the company defamed him when it claimed he had lied about how the data was going to be used.Since the full scope of Cambridge Analytica’s data mining was revealed last year, Facebook has repeatedly tried to shift blame for the privacy breach onto the academic, Aleksandr Kogan. Facebook executives — including the chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg — have said Mr. Kogan told Facebook that the data was for academic purposes when it was being collected for use in political campaigns.Mr. Kogan, 32, a former psychology professor, used a quiz app to collect the data, and has insisted that the fine print accompanying his app said the information could be used commercially. That was an outright violation of Facebook’s rules at the time, but the company does not appear to have regularly checked that apps were complying.“Alex did not lie, Alex was not a fraud, Alex did not deceive them, this was not a scam,” said Steve Cohen, a lawyer for Mr. Kogan. “Facebook knew exactly what this app was doing, or should have known. Facebook desperately needed a scapegoat, and Alex was their scapegoat.”Mr. Cohen said Mr. Kogan was not asking for any specific amount of money. “We’re going to leave that to a jury,” he said.In a statement, Liz Bourgeois, a spokeswoman for Facebook, described the action as a “frivolous lawsuit” from someone who “violated our policies and put people’s data at risk.”Cambridge Analytica was founded by Robert Mercer, a wealthy Republican donor, and Stephen K. Bannon, who would serve as an adviser to President Trump. The consulting firm rose to prominence in 2016 for its work with the Trump election campaign.The company claimed it had used Facebook data and other information to develop analytical tools that could identify the personalities of American voters and influence their behavior. Those techniques have been widely questioned.Cambridge hired Mr. Kogan as a contractor in June 2014 — the same month the company was founded — and collected the data throughout the summer by asking Facebook users to take a lengthy personality questionnaire. The quiz harvested data not only from everyone who took it, but also from all their friends.Facebook, which has since tightened its privacy protections, allowed app developers broad access to its users’ data at the time. Many were unaware their data was exposed, and Facebook was plunged into the worst crisis of its 14-year history after the scope of Cambridge Analytica’s data harvesting was revealed by The New York Times and The Observer of London.The company has since said that as many as 87 million users were affected, and it is facing investigations by federal prosecutors and regulators as a result. At least one of those investigations is being run by prosecutors from the Northern District of California, and appears to be partly focused on Facebook’s claims that it was misled by Cambridge.Federal prosecutors in New York are conducting what appears to be a separate criminal investigation into data deals Facebook struck with some of the world’s largest technology companies, including Amazon, Microsoft and Netflix. And the Federal Trade Commission, which spent the past year investigating whether Facebook violated its 2011 agreement about data privacy, is now weighing a multibillion-dollar fine against Facebook. That would be the largest such penalty ever imposed by the trade regulator.Follow Matthew Rosenberg on Twitter @AllMattNYT.Get politics and Washington news updates via Facebook, Twitter and the Morning Briefing newsletter.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Cecilia KangWASHINGTON — The Federal Trade Commission is in the advanced stages of its investigation into whether Facebook violated privacy rules and is expected to seek large fines from the company, according to two people familiar with the inquiry.The five members of the commission met in mid-December to discuss the investigation, according to the people, who would speak only on the condition of anonymity because the investigation is not public. The meeting is a sign that the investigation is far along, the people said, because the commissioners rarely meet in the early stages of an inquiry.The investigation, which began in late March, is continuing, and the commissioners and staff have not reached a final conclusion, including how much the agency might seek in fines, the people said. Consumer-protection and enforcement staff members have provided updates on what they believe is evidence of privacy violations, but they have not submitted a final report.The commissioners would vote on any recommendations from the staff, including whether to pursue fines or other penalties. They do not always approve staff recommendations.The highest financial penalty imposed on a tech company was Google’s $22 million settlement in 2012 for privacy violations. In the December meeting, the commissioners discussed a higher fine for Facebook, the people said.The Federal Trade Commission declined to comment. Facebook, which has repeatedly defended its actions, also declined to comment.The Washington Post earlier reported about the meeting and the potential for a record fine.The investigation is seen as a litmus test of the government’s ability to protect consumers in the digital age. All five commissioners have testified to Congress that they need more resources to go up against big corporations in enforcement actions. Their agency does not have the authority to create privacy rules, but it can police businesses through a broad mandate to protect consumers from deceptive and unfair practices.The investigation into Facebook began with revelations by The New York Times that a British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica, had obtained data from tens of millions of Facebook users without permission. The report ignited calls for investigations by global regulators and the summoning of Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, to testify before Congress last April.A consent decree from 2011 requires Facebook to seek permission from users of plans to share their data with third parties. The trade commission also requires Facebook to notify it when third parties misuse user data.Over the past nine months, enforcement and consumer-protection officials have looked into a series of additional reports by The Times and other publications that raised questions about whether Facebook’s use of data violated its consent decree, according to former officials. The expanded investigation included Facebook’s partnerships with hardware and other tech giants like Netflix and Amazon that gave other companies access to Facebook user data without explicit permission.Facebook has said Cambridge Analytica told it that the firm had deleted the data. The social network has hired scores of lawyers and privacy experts to handle the commission’s investigation, and Facebook’s top privacy officials and lawyers are in regular conversation with officials leading the investigation.For 17 months of the Trump administration, the Federal Trade Commission was run by two commissioners. In May, the new slate of commissioners arrived, all appointed by President Trump. Three members are typically from the president’s party, and two from the other party.The agency’s chairman, Joseph J. Simons, an antitrust lawyer, has declined to comment about the investigation. He has sent strict orders throughout the agency against leaking information about the inquiry to reporters.One of the people familiar with the investigation said the meeting last month, though unusual, had been called partly because three of the commissioners were new, and because the case warranted an update from enforcement and consumer-protection staff.The people said the investigation had been slowed by the government shutdown, now in its fifth week. The hallways at the agency are empty, and just the five commissioners and a smattering of other employees have arrived for work during the shutdown.Mike Isaac contributed reporting from San Francisco.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — After 18 months investigating Facebook and online misinformation, a British parliamentary committee issued a scathing report on Monday, accusing the company of breaking data privacy and competition laws and calling for new regulations to rein in the technology industry.Repeated scandals involving Facebook and other tech companies demand more government oversight, the committee concluded, including laws making internet companies legally liable for content shared on their websites.“The era of self-regulation for tech companies should come to an end,” said Damian Collins, the chairman of the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee, which published the report.The conclusions in Britain add to momentum globally for new regulations against the technology sector. Europe has been the most aggressive in taking on Silicon Valley, but a tougher approach is gaining ground in the United States, where the Federal Trade Commission is considering imposing a multibillion-dollar fine against Facebook, and lawmakers have called for new data-privacy regulations.The parliamentary report recommends the creation of a British watchdog to oversee the technology industry, similar to the country’s approach to regulating media companies. It also suggested legally requiring Facebook and other large internet platforms to remove what the government determines to be harmful content, or risk fines or other punishments.Silicon Valley has long opposed making tech companies responsible for content on their sites. The industry argues that websites like Facebook, YouTube and Twitter are simply unbiased platforms for others to share material, and that new restrictions could impede free speech.“Social media companies cannot hide behind the claim of being merely a ‘platform’ and maintain that they have no responsibility themselves in regulating the content of their sites,” the parliamentary report said.Facebook acknowledged past mistakes and said it was open to “meaningful regulation.”“While we still have more to do, we are not the same company we were a year ago,” said Karim Palant, a public policy manager for Facebook in Britain. “We have tripled the size of the team working to detect and protect users from bad content to 30,000 people and invested heavily in machine learning, artificial intelligence and computer vision technology to help prevent this type of abuse.”The blistering report concludes the committee’s work, which started as a study of how social media can be manipulated to influence elections like Britain’s 2016 vote to exit the European Union, but became a closer examination of Facebook’s business practices. The committee held several hearings related to Facebook’s relationship with Cambridge Analytica, the voter-targeting firm that gained access to 87 million Facebook users.The committee does not have lawmaking authority on its own, but Mr. Collins said in an interview that he hoped the recommendations would be incorporated into a broader review of technology regulation underway within the British government. Policymakers are debating new rules to prevent online election meddling, and the spread of hate speech and terrorist content.A British parliamentary committee would not typically cause much worry for a company of Facebook’s size, but the panel became a persistent challenge for the social media company.Mr. Collins has threatened to force Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, to testify if he ever travels to Britain. In December, the committee released a trove of secret internal emails in which Mr. Zuckerberg and other Facebook executives discussed sharing access to user data with certain companies, like Netflix and Airbnb, while cutting off others.The committee said the emails showed Facebook’s willingness to sacrifice user privacy to maximize revenue and generate more money from advertising. Without new oversight, technology companies cannot be expected to change, the report concluded.“The big tech companies must not be allowed to expand exponentially, without constraint or proper regulatory oversight,” the report said. “But only governments and the law are powerful enough to contain them.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IsaacSAN FRANCISCO — When Facebook employees woke up on Wednesday morning, many found they could not perform even the most basic work tasks.Their calendars were not working. Nor were campus maps that help people find their co-workers. They were unable to check Facebook’s latest shuttle bus schedule. And they could not see what the company’s cafeterias were serving for lunch.That’s because those features run on Facebook’s internal, custom-built iPhone apps — and Apple had shut them all down, according to nine current and former employees of the companies, who requested anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly.The situation stemmed from a dispute after Facebook violated Apple’s rules by publicly distributing a research app that allowed it to snoop on users’ online activity. When Apple discovered the transgression this week, it revoked Facebook’s special access to apps and updates that run on its iPhone software.That immediately cut off Facebook’s 35,000 workers from its internal iPhone apps. And the problem snowballed when mobile apps like Workplace and Messenger — two internal communication tools — also stopped working, frustrating employees and resulting in hours of lost productivity.Late Thursday, Apple relented and restored Facebook’s access. Yet the episode was a stark reminder of where the power really lies in the technology world. While Facebook is the world’s biggest social network, Apple controls the distribution of apps — including Facebook’s — on its phones. That power is a longstanding concern for Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder and chief executive, making his company beholden to the rules of others.The spat underscored the tensions between two of Silicon Valley’s largest tech companies, which have competed for years over talent and new technologies. Recently, each has taken potshots at the other over data privacy, with Apple’s chief executive, Timothy D. Cook, trading slights with Mr. Zuckerberg in interviews. Facebook also worked last year with a public-relations firm, Definers Public Affairs, to urge reporters to scrutinize Apple and other tech companies. And Apple has made changes to some of its tech features that limit the ability of Facebook and others to track users.Apple did not immediately have a comment on Thursday after reinstating Facebook’s access to its internal apps. In a statement, Facebook said it was “getting our internal apps up and running” and added, “To be clear, this didn’t have an impact on our consumer-facing services.”In an interview on Wednesday, Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, said of the dispute with Apple, “Obviously we want to be in full compliance with all of our partners.” She added that the Facebook research app at issue hadn’t been a secret and had been operated only with its users’ consent.Apple also briefly demonstrated its power on Thursday with another Silicon Valley giant, Google. Like Facebook, Google had violated Apple’s rules by publicly distributing an app, Screenwise Meter, through a special Apple developer program. The internet search company said some of its internal apps that run on iPhone software were temporarily disrupted.Two Google employees, who declined to be identified because they were not allowed to speak publicly on the matter, said iPhone apps for internal services like hailing a bus or viewing cafeteria information were not working. In addition, apps testing unreleased updates of Google products such as Gmail and Google Maps were unavailable, these people said. The disruptions were earlier reported by the technology website The Verge.A Google spokeswoman, Suzanne Blackburn, said in a statement that the company expected the issue to be resolved “soon.” A spokesman for Apple, Tom Neumayr, said it was working with Google to reinstate access “very quickly.” He declined to comment on whether Apple had revoked Google’s access or if it was a technical glitch.Apple’s dispute with Facebook this week was rooted in the social network’s practice of scooping up information on its users’ practices, a way for it to gain insight into their digital habits so it can improve products to keep consumers regularly coming back to its site.In 2013, Facebook acquired Onavo, an Israeli company that collected information on how customers used every app on their phones. Onavo’s findings helped Facebook executives predict which apps were rising and trending across App Stores.That gave Mr. Zuckerberg, who colleagues have said was highly dependent on the data, the foresight to try to buy Snapchat long before it went public. Although that effort failed, Facebook has built products, like live video streams and group video chat, based on information gleaned from Onavo’s app.Last year, Apple updated some of its privacy policies and forced Facebook to remove Onavo’s app from its App Store. But Onavo had other ways of collecting consumer data that bypassed some of Apple’s restrictions.In 2016, the Onavo team had created a research app that vacuumed up all of a user’s phone and web activity; Facebook paid people ages 13 to 35 to install it. Then Facebook distributed the app under an Apple program with a special approval process if apps are used only for internal testing.On Tuesday, the technology news site TechCrunch published a report detailing Facebook’s research app and its public use, which violated the rules of Apple’s program. Facebook immediately pushed back on privacy concerns and said it was not tricking users with the research app.“There was nothing ‘secret’ about this; it was literally called the Facebook Research App,” Arielle Argyres, a Facebook spokeswoman, said in a statement. “It wasn’t ‘spying’ as all of the people who signed up to participate went through a clear on-boarding process asking for their permission and were paid to participate.”She added that fewer than 5 percent of users in the research program were teenagers and that all had obtained signed parental consent forms.But Facebook had no comeback for sidestepping Apple’s rules. On Wednesday morning, Apple revoked Facebook’s “enterprise developer certificate” and paralyzed the social giant from deploying its internal iPhone apps.“Facebook has been using their membership to distribute a data-collecting app to consumers, which is a clear breach of their agreement with Apple,” Tammy Levine, an Apple spokeswoman, said at the time. “Any developer using their enterprise certificates to distribute apps to consumers will have their certificates revoked, which is what we did in this case to protect our users and their data.”Apple has been dealing with its own privacy problems. This week, a bug was discovered in its FaceTime app, whereby people could spy on the video and audio FaceTime calls of other users. Apple has pledged to fix the problem by the end of this week.After Apple’s revocation, employees inside Facebook became furious with the Onavo team, according to four people familiar with the company’s deliberations. Some said they would have to wait weeks to get app updates or changes approved through Apple’s App Store. Several employees in Facebook’s hardware division said they were considering quitting because they could not get any work done.Late Thursday, after Apple relented, Facebook employees began seeing the next day’s lunch menu again, as well as their calendars and their shuttle bus schedules. Still, they said, Apple had made its point.Follow Mike Isaac on Twitter: @MikeIsaac.Jack Nicas contributed reporting from New York, and Daisuke Wakabayashi from San Francisco.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersQUITO — A New York man charged with trying to defraud Facebook Inc founder Mark Zuckerberg is seeking asylum in Ecuador, where he was arrested in 2018 after fleeing the United States more than three years ago to avoid facing trial.An Ecuadorean court in November had authorized the extradition of wood pellet salesman Paul Ceglia, who faced U.S. charges of mail fraud and wire fraud over allegations he forged documents to extort Facebook and Zuckerberg.Paul Ceglia expressed his ""desire to receive territorial asylum from the Ecuadorean state, and there is a formal request to the Ecuadorean government,"" Ceglia's lawyer, Roberto Calderon, said in a telephone interview.Ceglia believes that he would be in danger if he was returned to the United States, the lawyer said.The Ecuadorean Foreign Ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Ceglia had sued Zuckerberg in 2010 saying he had signed a contract in 2003 while studying at Harvard University that gave him half of the planned social network site that would become Facebook.Calderon said the Ecuadorean Foreign Ministry asked the Interior Ministry to suspend his extradition to the United States until the asylum request is resolved.Ecuador on Thursday ended the asylum of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange in the country's embassy in London, leading to his arrest. (Reporting by Jose Llangari and Alexandra Valencia; editing by Grant McCool)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersQUITO — A New York man charged with trying to defraud Facebook Inc founder Mark Zuckerberg is seeking asylum in Ecuador, where he was arrested in 2018 after fleeing the United States more than three years ago to avoid facing trial.An Ecuadorean court in November had authorized the extradition of wood pellet salesman Paul Ceglia, who faced U.S. charges of mail fraud and wire fraud over allegations he forged documents to extort Facebook and Zuckerberg.Paul Ceglia expressed his ""desire to receive territorial asylum from the Ecuadorean state, and there is a formal request to the Ecuadorean government,"" Ceglia's lawyer, Roberto Calderon, said in a telephone interview.Ceglia believes that he would be in danger if he was returned to the United States, the lawyer said.The Ecuadorean Foreign Ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment. Ceglia had sued Zuckerberg in 2010 saying he had signed a contract in 2003 while studying at Harvard University that gave him half of the planned social network site that would become Facebook.Calderon said the Ecuadorean Foreign Ministry asked the Interior Ministry to suspend his extradition to the United States until the asylum request is resolved.Ecuador on Thursday ended the asylum of WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange in the country's embassy in London, leading to his arrest. (Reporting by Jose Llangari and Alexandra Valencia; editing by Grant McCool)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Cecilia KangWASHINGTON — The Federal Trade Commission has no shortage of critics who say it cannot protect Americans from the prying eyes of Big Tech. Instead of forceful action against the likes of Facebook and Google, they say, the F.T.C. leans on rules that make it hard to impose penalties bigger than rounding errors for the companies.Those critics have an unusual champion: Joseph J. Simons, the man running the agency.“We have this over 100-year-old statute that is our main authority,” Mr. Simons said in his first sit-down interview since becoming chairman 10 months ago. “And clearly legislators who approved that were not thinking about data security and privacy issues.”In the deregulatory era of the Trump administration, Mr. Simons, 60, a Republican lawyer who has jumped between the public and private sectors for more than 30 years, is a rare voice for strengthening the government’s hand.Mr. Simons has urged Congress to expand the F.T.C.’s privacy-enforcement powers and allow it to impose fines more easily, write new rules and hire more experts. He also says the agency should police how all companies and nonprofits — not just technology companies — collect and handle people’s digital data.But none of those changes will happen before Mr. Simons must make the most anticipated decision on data privacy in the agency’s history. In the coming weeks, he and the F.T.C.’s four other commissioners are expected to conclude an investigation into whether Facebook violated its promises to protect people’s data.The outcome of the case is seen as a referendum on the government’s ability to rein in tech giants that have amassed incredible wealth and power from collecting and bartering user data.“The F.T.C.’s decision on Facebook will be highly consequential, for the F.T.C. and Facebook, for the tech industry, and for consumers,” said David Vladeck, who led consumer protection at the agency during the Obama administration. “The commission’s action will set the bar.”The case has taken on huge significance in Washington, where Facebook has become Exhibit A for an industry accused of a wide range of problems, from enabling foreign election interference to crushing competitors.A rising chorus of Republican and Democratic lawmakers has criticized the F.T.C. for not restraining the companies’ data-collection practices, which are central to some of their businesses. The agency’s biggest penalty on a tech company was a $22 million fine imposed on Google in 2012, for misrepresenting how it used some online tracking tools. Google reported $50 billion in revenue that year.On Friday, Senator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who is running for president, announced a sweeping plan to strengthen regulations against big tech companies.“The F.T.C. has been a disappointment with its lack of enforcement in the past, which for Facebook and Google has amounted to a slap on the wrist,” Senator Josh Hawley, a freshman Republican from Missouri, said in an interview. Mr. Hawley investigated Google for competition violations when he was a state attorney general.The Facebook investigation is focused on whether the social network violated a 2011 consent decree in which it promised to protect user data and inform users of changes in how their data was used. The inquiry started last March under Mr. Simons’s Republican predecessor, Maureen Ohlhausen, after a report in The New York Times revealed that the political consulting firm Cambridge Analytica had analyzed the data of 87 million users without their permission.The agency is considering imposing a multibillion-dollar fine on Facebook as well as new requirements to strengthen protections on how data is collected and shared, according to two people close to talks between the agency and the company. The two sides have discussed a possible settlement for weeks, said the people, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the investigation is continuing.Facebook declined to comment about Mr. Simons and the investigation. The social network has defended its actions, saying that when it learned a researcher violated its terms of service by giving user data to Cambridge Analytica, it demanded that the data be destroyed and was promised that it had been.On Wednesday, the company announced plans to shift to a more privacy-focused platform. Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, said Facebook would invest in encrypted communications and refashion its messaging tools to emphasize private conversations.Mr. Simons declined to discuss the Facebook case. And he was even guarded about his own use of technology. He would not say whether he used Facebook or two other popular apps owned by the company, Instagram and WhatsApp. He doesn’t use other social media like Twitter, he said; aides write the tweets from his official F.T.C. account.“I don’t even know how to access my account,” Mr. Simons said.His comfort zone is antitrust regulation, a major focus for the F.T.C. and an area in which he has worked for most of his career. In his meticulous office, Mr. Simons keeps handy a worn Yale Law Journal with red plastic tabs on antitrust articles. He has had six of its authors speak at the F.T.C. since he arrived.In one of his first actions as chairman, he held hearings on updating merger reviews and antitrust enforcement in the digital age. In late February, he announced a task force of 17 antitrust staff members to study potential problems that could arise from past tech mergers.“In antitrust, you want to focus on areas where there is likely to be market power or monopoly power,” Mr. Simons said. “So it is not unreasonable to look at big digital platforms and say, well, that might be an ripe area to look at.”He is new to the world of data privacy and admits he is cramming to understand it, immersing himself in articles and grilling staff about data protection. But that, he said, allows him to bring a “fresh perspective” to privacy enforcement.“I am willing to look at everything with a fresh eye, and to question long-held beliefs and assumptions,” he said.The F.T.C. monitors whether companies like Google, Uber and Facebook break promises written into privacy policies. But it can’t directly fine a company for a first-time offense; it can only charge a company with deceptive or unfair business practices, which the agency must prove in court. The potential penalty against Facebook could reach billions of dollars because the case hinges on whether it violated a previous settlement.Mr. Simons argues that the agency needs more direct authority to oversee privacy practices and fine companies. He says it is too hard to prove to a court that someone has been harmed by a company’s unauthorized use of their data.“It’s important that we get civil penalty authority,” he said. “For companies that have lots of money, the impact would be sufficient to deter them.”Privacy groups say the agency has missed numerous opportunities to punish companies with its existing powers. Many compare the commission with European regulators, which have levied hefty fines on Google, Facebook, Amazon and Apple for violating antitrust, privacy, tax and security laws.Some privacy advocates are also concerned about Mr. Simon’s inexperience in the area, saying it requires a deep understanding of complicated technologies.“I don’t think he understands the dimensions and implications underlying the consumer privacy threat,” said Jeffrey Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group.Mr. Simons said there were obvious differences between how the United States and Europe viewed privacy.“The E.U. has this strong sense of the right to be forgotten,” he said. “We don’t have that. We have the opposite of that. We have the First Amendment.”And he said the details of how the government handled digital privacy should be for lawmakers, not him, to sort out.“Privacy involves very important societal and cultural values that really need to be determined by the Congress,” Mr. Simons said, pointing toward Capitol Hill, less than a mile up Pennsylvania Avenue from his office.“Not,” he said, “by unelected F.T.C. commissioners.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bywith interestBy Charlotte CowlesWant this column in your inbox? Sign up here.Welcome to your quick and painless summary of tech and business news. You don’t need reminding that it’s the shortest weekend of the year; make the most of it.MARCH 3-9Facebook, the platform known for sharing your personal information with the world whether you like it or not, is going for a more discreet vibe these days. The company’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, wants to nudge users toward “private” messaging and away from blasting their networks with status updates, a trend he says is already underway. He likened his new vision, which will integrate other Facebook-owned platforms like Instagram and WhatsApp, to a “digital living room” where people can have intimate discussions secure from outsiders. (He emphasized the term “encrypted.”) It’s unclear how this pivot will affect Facebook’s business model, and critics have pointed out the obvious paradox of a company known for playing fast and loose with users’ data suddenly espousing privacy protection.Yet another sign that the country’s economy may be cooling: February’s disappointing jobs numbers. Only 20,000 new jobs were added, far less than the 175,000 that analysts had predicted. It’s the weakest report since September 2017, but on the upside, it still marks the 101st consecutive month of growth. Wall Street got good news this past week as regulators eased their oversight of the nation’s biggest banks. The policy shift is part of the Trump administration’s promise to call off the watchdogs put in place after the 2008 financial crisis, rules that the financial industry has criticized as hampering economic growth. While these rollbacks may help stoke markets, they could also lead to a less transparent financial system — and a repeat of past mistakes. Go back to enjoying your pasta: The Italian food impresario Mario Batali has formally exited his dining empire. More than a year after multiple women accused him of sexual harassment and assault, he “will no longer profit from the restaurants in any way, shape or form,” said Tanya Bastianich Manuali, who will run the remaining 16 establishments in Mr. Batali’s former portfolio. She and her brother, Mr. Batali’s erstwhile business partner Joe Bastianich, bought the disgraced chef’s shares in the Batali & Bastianich Hospitality Group for an undisclosed sum. Mr. Batali will also hand over the keys to Eataly, the chain of Italian food emporiums. MARCH 10-16If you’ve been holding out for a Tesla that can fit your family and Elon Musk’s ego, the automaker will unveil its new crossover S.U.V., the Model Y, at the company’s Los Angeles design studio this week. Mr. Musk, the chief executive, said that the Model Y will be about 10 percent roomier than the Model 3 sedan, have slightly less battery range and come at a higher price. Tesla could certainly use the revenue boost. In its effort to sell the Model 3 for a long-promised $35,000, it’s had to lay off workers, close showrooms and cut other costs — moves that have battered its stock price. Wondering what the growing crowd of presidential candidates will be talking about this coming week, in addition to the country’s new record-high trade deficit? Well, President Trump is expected to deliver his budget proposal for 2020 this Monday, about a month late because of the government shutdown earlier this year. Lower tax revenue and increased government spending have driven up annual budget deficits, which now are expected to exceed $1 trillion starting in 2022, according to the Congressional Budget Office. But Mr. Trump is likely to play down those numbers and focus on spending cuts instead. It’s understandable if you’ve been ignoring the Brexit commotion; all that back-and-forth was getting tedious. But now is the time to start paying attention, as talks come down to the wire. Britain’s House of Commons will vote on the latest version of Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan this Tuesday. If it is rejected — as it probably will be — then Parliament will vote on whether to leave the European Union without a deal or to delay Britain’s departure beyond the original March 29 deadline. Either way, the path doesn’t look smooth, and the European Central Bank is bracing itself. On Thursday, it abruptly reversed course and revived its stimulus measures.Uber will not be held criminally liable for the death of a woman who was hit by a self-driving test car in Arizona last year, although its safety driver — who was sitting in the driver’s seat at the time of the accident — still could face charges. In other news, a new cosmetics deal has made Kylie Jenner, at 21 years old, the world’s youngest “self-made” billionaire (the “self-made” label is up for debate, but hey, the money’s real). Perhaps she’ll buy this Bugatti, which set a record last week as the world’s most expensive car at $19 million.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressSAN FRANCISCO — Facebook is nominating to its board of directors a PayPal executive who recently served as finance chief of the charitable organization run by CEO Mark Zuckerberg and his wife Priscilla Chan.Peggy Alford would be the first African American woman to serve on Facebook's board. Her naming follows pressure from civil rights groups on the company to diversify its board.Meanwhile, Netflix CEO Reed Hastings and former White House chief of staff Erskine Bowles are stepping down from Facebook's board. Both served since 2011. Hastings leaves Facebook as the social media company is getting increasingly into video offerings, potentially competing with Netflix.Disney CEO Bob Iger, however, said earlier Friday that he's not leaving Apple's board, despite both companies now streaming video.Advertisement"
" Advertisement

      By CHARLIE WARZEL and 
    
STUART A. THOMPSON

APRIL 10, 2019

On June 9, 1999, Google made a pledge to its small but growing number of customers in a blunt 600-word statement. “Google is sensitive to the privacy concerns of its users. The internet allows individuals to explore and communicate with unprecedented ease, but it also allows websites to collect and distribute personal information with equal ease. We at Google know that many users are, understandably, concerned about such practices.”The statement, which today reads like a quaint artifact of a simpler time, would become the company’s first privacy policy — a gently lawyered explanation of how the company collects and distributes its users’ data and information. Google’s was far from the first privacy statement from a big technology business, but it’s one of the first examples of the form from a company that helped lay the foundation for the modern, information-guzzling internet.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what's at stake and what you can do about it.]  And it wasn’t only Google that was “sensitive to the privacy concerns of its users.” All of today’s tech giants have made similar commitments.In 2002, the Microsoft founder Bill Gates declared, “Users should be in control of how their data is used.”Three years later, Facebook, through its founder, Mark Zuckerberg, echoed the statement in a note to its campus user base, “We give you control of your information.”Similar statements from countless technology companies have followed in the years since. Over that time, they have said they would like to protect your privacy ...… even as many companies began to collect and display information invasively.Technology companies have also tried to explain all the ways they protect your privacy ...… but the rhetoric was different from reality, where a number of companies experienced hacks and data breaches.Since the early 2000s, companies have argued that despite all the data they collect, you still own it ...… and yet default designs and settings and lax security have long left information vulnerable.Finally, since the advent of concerns about Google and Facebook’s use of personal data for advertising,  companies have pointed out that they don’t sell your data …… and nonetheless many of the companies' business models are predicated on a targeted advertising model that relies on the continued collection of increasingly personal information.It’s been almost 20 years since Google’s first privacy statement. The internet today is a significantly different place, one that’s largely powered by the transmission and transfer of our personal information. Data breaches — some of vertiginous scale — are common, as is the creeping sense that, in order to log on, we’re forced to submit to being tracked and targeted.But if the modern internet has changed greatly, the statements from the multinational corporations that transformed it have remained strikingly similar. The tech companies and their leaders have been saying we should be in charge of our information for 20 years. So why — now, more than ever — does it feel that we aren’t?Charlie Warzel, a New York Times Opinion writer at large, covers technology, media, politics and online extremism. He welcomes your tips and feedback: charlie.warzel@nytimes.com and @cwarzel. Stuart A. Thompson is the graphics director for The New York Times OpinionThe Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email:letters@nytimes.com.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.The New York Times is launching an ongoing examination of privacy. We’ll dig into the ideas, history and future of how our information navigates the digital ecosystem and what’s at stake.See all Privacy articlesFrom the NewsroomApril 13, 2019See all Privacy articlesAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSubscribe: iTunes | Google Play Music | How to ListenThe venture capitalist Roger McNamee has a long history with Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook. Among other things, he suggested that Zuckerberg hire Sheryl Sandberg to be his chief operating officer.“For the past two years,” McNamee says on this week’s podcast, “I have converted from being an investor in technology to being a critic of companies that I was part of helping to build and which I love dearly, but which sadly are now unintentionally causing great harm.”McNamee addresses his concerns and what he thinks can be done about them in a discussion about his new book, “Zucked: Waking Up to the Facebook Catastrophe.”Charles Finch also visits us this week, to talk about the season’s best thrillers, including Jane Harper’s “The Lost Man,” which Finch calls “a roar back to form” by a “gifted, laconic” writer.Also on this week’s episode, Lovia Gyarkye, Tina Jordan and John Williams talk about what people are reading. Pamela Paul is the host.Here are the books discussed in this week’s “What We’re Reading”:“The Water Cure” by Sophie Mackintosh“A Brief History of Seven Killings” by Marlon James“Hold Still” by Sally Mann“Notes on a Nervous Planet” by Matt HaigWe would love to hear your thoughts about this episode, and about the Book Review’s podcast in general. You can send them to books@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Thomas FullerSAN FRANCISCO — Three blocks from Mark Zuckerberg’s $10 million Tudor home in San Francisco, Jake Orta lives in a small, single-window studio apartment filled with trash.There’s a child’s pink bicycle helmet that Mr. Orta dug out from the garbage bin across the street from Mr. Zuckerberg’s house. And a vacuum cleaner, a hair dryer, a coffee machine — all in working condition — and a pile of clothes that he carried home in a Whole Foods paper bag retrieved from Mr. Zuckerberg’s bin.A military veteran who fell into homelessness and now lives in government subsidized housing, Mr. Orta is a full-time trash picker, part of an underground economy in San Francisco of people who work the sidewalks in front of multimillion-dollar homes, rummaging for things they can sell.Trash picking is a profession more often associated with shantytowns and favelas than a city at the doorstep of Silicon Valley. The Global Alliance of Waste Pickers, a nonprofit research and advocacy organization, counts more than 400 trash picking organizations across the globe, almost all of them in Latin America, Africa and southern Asia.But trash scavengers exist in many United States cities and, like the rampant homelessness in San Francisco, are a signpost of the extremes of American capitalism. A snapshot from 2019: One of the world’s richest men and a trash picker, living a few minutes’ walk from each other.Mr. Orta, 56, sees himself as more of a treasure hunter.“It just amazes me what people throw away,” he said one night, as he found a pair of gently used designer jeans, a new black cotton jacket, gray Nike running sneakers and a bicycle pump. “You never know what you will find.”Mr. Orta says his goal is to earn around $30 to $40 a day from his discoveries, a survival income of around $300 a week.Trash picking is illegal in California — once a bin is rolled out onto the sidewalk the contents are considered the possession of the trash collection company, according to Robert Reed, a spokesman for Recology, the company contracted to collect San Francisco’s garbage. But the law is rarely enforced.Mr. Orta was born in San Antonio, Tex., one of 12 children. He spent more than a dozen years in the Air Force, loading aircraft during the Persian Gulf war of 1991 and was dispatched to Germany, Korea and Saudi Arabia. By the time he returned to the United States, his wife had left him, and he struggled with alcoholism and homelessness. He moved to San Francisco, and five years ago qualified for a program assisting chronically homeless veterans.At dusk he leaves his apartment building, which is wedged between a popular brunch spot for tech workers and a cannabis shop in the heart of the Mission neighborhood. The smell of marijuana fills the vestibule. Walking up a steep hill lined with mature trees, he passes homes that could pass for works of art: Victorians, some with stained glass and elaborate cornices and moldings painted in a soft palette of pastels, ocher, celadon and teal. A virtual tour of the neighborhood on the Zillow site shows that homes valued at $3 million and above are the norm.But Mr. Orta doesn’t look at the architecture. He walks the streets, slightly stooped, his eyes on the ground and a flashlight in his back pocket. His friends call him the Finder.On the six times Mr. Orta went out with a reporter, he followed a variety of circuits, but usually ended up exploring his favorite alleys and a dumpster that has been bountiful. (The first rule of dumpster scavenging, he said, is to make sure there’s no raccoon or possum in there.) In March, the dumpster yielded a box of silver goblets, dishes and plates, as if someone had yanked a tablecloth from underneath a feast in some European chateau.“How do you say it?” William Washington, one of Mr. Orta’s trash-picking colleagues, remarked one night. “One man’s trash is another man’s treasure.”Mr. Orta’s other recent discoveries: phones, iPads, three wristwatches and bags of marijuana. (“I smoked it,” he said when asked how much he got for the pot.) In late August or September, as participants return from the annual Burning Man festival in the Nevada desert, Mr. Orta says he often finds abandoned bicycles covered in fine sand.Mr. Orta says he only takes what people have clearly thrown away, although 14 years ago he spent a few months in jail for breaking into someone’s garage in Sacramento and trying to steal a wrench for his bicycle. “It was a dumb mistake,” he said.For years San Francisco has been a global beacon of recycling, attracting a stream of government ministers, journalists and students from across the globe to study the sorting facilities of Recology.But the city is also full of young, affluent people preoccupied with demanding jobs and long commutes for whom the garbage can is a tempting way to get rid of that extra pair of jeans or old electronics cluttering their closet.“We have a lot of trash of convenience,” said Mr. Reed, the spokesman for Recology. “You’ve got more and more tech people here and this city is moving faster and faster. These people have short attention spans. Some discard items that ought to be repurposed through a thrift shop.”Trash pickers fall into several broad categories. For decades, elderly women and men have collected cardboard, paper, cans or bottles, lugging impossibly large bags around the city and bringing them to recycling centers for cash.The city is most concerned about the battered pickup trucks, known as mosquito fleets, that buzz around San Francisco collecting recyclables on an industrial scale, depriving Recology, and ultimately the city, of income, said Bill Barnes, a spokesman for the city administrator’s office.“That’s a significant challenge for residents because it results in higher garbage rates,” Mr. Barnes said.Trash pickers like Mr. Orta are in yet another category, targeting items in the black landfill garbage bins whose contents would otherwise go to what’s known as the pit — a hole in the ground on the outskirts of the city that resembles a giant swimming pool, where trash is crushed and compacted by a huge bulldozer and then carried by a fleet of trucks to a dump an hour and a half away. The city exports about 50 large truckloads a day.Nick Marzano, an Australian photographer who publishes a glossy magazine, Mission Gold, which documents the world of trash pickers in San Francisco, estimates there are several hundred garbage scavengers in the city.“It’s a civic service as I see it,” Mr. Marzano said. “Rather than this stuff going to landfill the items are being reused.”Mr. Marzano says there is overlap among trash picking and homelessness and public drug use — the street conditions that have ranked at the top of residents’ concerns for several years. But he sees trash picking, and the spontaneous sidewalk markets that pop up in neighborhoods like the Mission and Tenderloin, as a form of entrepreneurship.“It’s the primary form of income for people who have no other income,” he said.Mr. Orta sells what he retrieves at impromptu markets on Mission Street or at a more formal market on Saturdays on Julian Avenue. Children’s toys very rarely sell — parents don’t like the idea that they have come from the trash. Women’s clothing is iffy. But men don’t seem to care as much where the clothing came from, and jeans are easy to hawk for $5 or $10 a pair.Mr. Orta’s favorite item retrieved from the trash is one that he will not sell: a collection of newspapers from around the world documenting the course of World War II. He wonders why anyone would have thrown that away.On a recent Tuesday evening — the eve of trash collection in Mr. Zuckerberg’s neighborhood — Mr. Orta didn’t find anything worth keeping in the Facebook founder’s two garbage cans. Mr. Zuckerberg has at least one other home in the San Francisco Bay Area; this one he bought in November 2012 for $9,999,000 through a company he controls.In the blue recycling bin marked with Mr. Zuckerberg’s address, there were A&W diet root beer cans, cardboard boxes and a junk mail credit card offer. In the black landfill bin were remnants of a chicken dinner, a stale baguette and Chinese takeout containers.Mr. Orta pulled apart a garbage bag in the black bin.“Just junk — nothing in there.”Susan Beachy and Alain Delaquérière contributed research.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byIts plan to combine Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger entrenches its monopoly power, and the F.T.C. should step in.By Sally HubbardMs. Hubbard is an editor at The Capitol Forum.In response to calls that Facebook be forced to divest itself of WhatsApp and Instagram, Mark Zuckerberg has instead made a strategic power grab: He intends to put Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger onto a unified technical infrastructure. The integrated apps are to be encrypted to protect users from hackers. But who’s going to protect users from Facebook?Ideally, that would be the Federal Trade Commission, the agency charged with enforcing the antitrust laws and protecting consumers from unfair business practices. But the F.T.C. has looked the other way for far too long, failing to enforce its own 2011 consent decree under which Facebook was ordered to stop deceiving users about its privacy claims. The F.T.C. has also allowed Facebook to gobble up any company that could possibly compete against it, including Instagram and WhatsApp.Not that blocking these acquisitions would have been easy for the agency under the current state of antitrust law. Courts require antitrust enforcers to prove that a merger will raise prices or reduce production of a particular product or service. But proving that prices will increase is nearly impossible in a digital world where consumers pay not with money but with their personal data and by viewing ads.The integration Mr. Zuckerberg plans would immunize Facebook’s monopoly power from attack. It would make breaking Instagram and WhatsApp off as independent and viable competitors much harder, and thus demands speedy action by the government before it’s too late to take the pieces apart. Mr. Zuckerberg might be betting that he can integrate these three applications faster than any antitrust case could proceed — and he would be right, because antitrust cases take years.Luckily, the F.T.C. has a way to act quickly. Prompted by the Cambridge Analytica scandal, the agency has been investigating Facebook for violating that 2011 consent decree, which required it, among other things, to not misrepresent its handling of user information and to create a comprehensive privacy program. The F.T.C. can demand Facebook stop the integration as one of the conditions for settling any charges related to the consent decree, rather than just imposing an inconsequential fine.If not stopped, the integration will cement Facebook’s monopoly power by enriching its data trove, allowing it to spy on users in new ways. Facebook might decide to sync data from one app to another so it can better track users. And Facebook needs user data: The reason it commands such a large share of digital advertising is that it tracks users — and even people without Facebook accounts — across millions of sites. It gathers data that allows it to target ads more precisely than many of its rivals for digital ad dollars, including news media sites and content creators.After stopping Mr. Zuckerberg’s integration plan, the F.T.C. should reverse the WhatsApp and Instagram acquisitions as illegal under the Clayton Act, which prohibits mergers and acquisitions where the effect “may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly.” Undoing the mergers would give consumers an alternative to Facebook-owned apps and force Facebook to do better. Without meaningful competition, Facebook has little incentive to protect users by making changes that could reduce profits. Users unhappy about data collection and algorithms that promote fake news and political polarization don’t have anywhere to go.Any future Facebook acquisitions, no matter what the size, should be strictly reviewed because of the company’s history of deceiving users. Facebook uses technology, like its Onavo and Research apps, that monitor consumers’ app usage to identify potential rivals even before they are big enough to get on antitrust enforcers’ radars. Internal Facebook documents published by the British Parliament show Facebook used Onavo data to identify WhatsApp as a competitive threat, only to convince regulators otherwise.Congress also should write legislation to overrule misguided cases that have neutered antitrust enforcement, and pass a strong privacy law with enough resources to enforce it. Only then, perhaps, will we be protected from Facebook. Sally Hubbard (@Sally_Hubbard) is a former assistant attorney general in the New York State Attorney General’s Antitrust Bureau and an editor at The Capitol Forum, where she covers technology and monopolization.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — Two U.S. senators introduced a bill on Tuesday to ban online social media companies like Facebook Inc and Twitter Inc from tricking consumers into giving up their personal data.The bill from Mark Warner, a Democrat, and Deb Fischer, a Republican, would also ban online platforms with more than 100 million monthly active users from designing addicting games or other websites for children under age 13. The bill takes aim at practices that online platforms use to mislead people into giving personal data to companies or otherwise trick them. The so-called ""dark patterns"" were developed using behavioral psychology.""Misleading prompts to just click the ‘OK’ button can often transfer your contacts, messages, browsing activity, photos, or location information without you even realizing it,"" Fischer said in a statement issued by both senators.Restrictions on how social media companies collect information about users could hurt their ability to sell advertisements, a key source of profit. A website aimed at tracking dark patterns identifies behavior, such as a website or app showing that a user has new notifications when they do not. Warner said in an interview on CNBC that the legislation could be included in a federal privacy bill that lawmakers in the Senate Commerce Committee are drafting. Congress has been expected to take up privacy legislation after California passed a strict privacy law that goes into effect next year.Warner noted that Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg, Google and others have expressed support for privacy regulation.""The platform companies are now going to have an opportunity to put their money where their mouth is, to see if they support this legislation and other approaches,"" he said. The bill would bar companies from choosing groups of people for behavioral experiments unless the companies get informed consent.Under the terms of the bill, social media companies would create a professional standards body to create best practices to deal with the issue. The Federal Trade Commission, which investigates deceptive advertising, would work with the group.Facebook, Google, Twitter and other free online services rely on advertising for revenue, and use data collected on users to more effectively target those ads.The story refiles to fix typographical error in last paragraph to make it ""rely"" instead of ""relay"" (Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Susan Thomas and Jonathan Oatis)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Michael D. ShearWASHINGTON — For months, President Trump has been railing about the urgent need for a wall to protect against what he calls “an invasion” of illegal immigrants flooding across the southwestern border. But he has also been delivering another message: “We need workers,” he told a group of activists recently.In other words, he wants more immigrants.“I want people to come into our country, in the largest numbers ever, but they have to come in legally,” Mr. Trump ad-libbed last month during his State of the Union address.Comments like those from the president have ignited furious criticism from his hard-line, anti-immigrant supporters who accuse him of caving to demands for cheap foreign labor from corporations, establishment Republicans and big donors while abandoning his election promise to protect his working-class supporters from the effects of globalism.“This is clearly a betrayal of what immigration hawks hoped the Trump administration would be for,” said Mark Krikorian, the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which advocates cutting legal immigration by more than half. He warned that Mr. Trump was in danger of being “not even that different from a conventional Republican.”Breitbart News, a conservative website that promotes anti-immigrant messaging, published on Thursday the latest in a series of articles attacking Mr. Trump for catering to big business at the expense of the Americans who put him in the Oval Office. “Trump Requests ‘More’ Foreign Workers as Southern Border Gets Overrun,” the site blared on its home page.“That Mr. Trump would advance the interests of the global elite ahead of our citizens would be a tragic reversal on any day,” Lou Dobbs, the Fox Business Network host, said in a televised rant against the president on Wednesday evening. “The White House has simply lost its way.”Corporations and influential corporate conservatives such as Charles G. Koch and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce have long urged the president to help them recruit the talent they need by expanding the number of workers who can enter the United States from other countries.That has become more urgent as the economy has improved and as declining unemployment has made it harder for companies to find workers. To assuage their concerns, Mr. Trump has increasingly tailored his immigration talking points to cater to the needs of business executives like those who attended a business round table on Wednesday at the White House.“We’re going to have a lot of people coming into the country. We want a lot of people coming in. And we need it,” Mr. Trump said as he sat next to Tim Cook, the chief executive of Apple, and other executives. “We want to have the companies grow, and the only way they’re going to grow is if we give them the workers, and the only way we’re going to have the workers is to do exactly what we’re doing.”But that message runs counter to the hard-line immigration image that Mr. Trump has carefully nurtured — most recently by shutting the government down for 35 days in a failed attempt to pressure Congress to fund a wall on the Mexican border.Mr. Trump won the White House in no small part by embracing anti-immigrant messaging that tapped into the economic fears of blue-collar workers upset about losing their jobs to foreign workers. Throughout the 2016 presidential campaign, he attacked undocumented immigrants as “rapists and murderers” and called for a “big, beautiful wall” along the border with Mexico.Since becoming president, Mr. Trump has aggressively sought to crack down on illegal border crossings, increase deportations, cut the number of refugees allowed into the United States and make it harder for migrants to claim asylum. He has complained about drug dealers, gangs and members of Central American caravans pouring across the border. And last summer, his administration separated thousands of migrant children from their parents in an effort to deter Central American families from trying to seek refuge in the United States.The harsh record — and comments by Mr. Trump that disparaged African nations in vulgar terms and suggested that Haitian immigrants “all have AIDS” — has earned him the enmity of Democrats and immigration activists, who call him a racist president.It is unclear whether Mr. Trump will follow through on his recent, pro-business messaging. Many of the president’s aides — including Stephen Miller, his top immigration adviser in the White House — agree with the hard-line activists about the need to lower legal immigration.In 2017, Mr. Trump endorsed the Raise Act, a Republican Senate bill that would reduce legal immigration by as much as 50 percent. And the administration is currently considering a proposal to cut immigration by denying work authorizations, known as H-4 permits, to almost 100,000 spouses of immigrants who are brought in by companies to work legally in the United States.But even so, some of the nation’s most hard-line anti-immigration activists have become increasingly nervous that Mr. Trump might waver on their primary concern — the need to shrink the number of immigrants who enter the United States each year, currently 1.1 million.They argue that tight labor markets make it exactly the wrong time to allow more foreign workers to compete with Americans. Chris Chmielenski, the deputy director of NumbersUSA, which lobbies for lower legal immigration, said companies should be pressured to hire more Americans instead.“Anything we do now to bring in more foreign workers could actually reverse some of the economic gains over the last four years,” Mr. Chmielenski said. “We’re absolutely concerned. We feel this isn’t how he ran on the issue.”Last week, in an effort to communicate that message directly to Mr. Trump, NumbersUSA began airing an ad on Fox News Channel in the hopes that the president would get the message that his supporters do not want to let in more than one million immigrants each year.“The majority of voters say the number should be cut to 500,000 or less,” the ad said. “Americans want less immigration.”Mr. Krikorian, of the Center for Immigration Studies, said that companies that no longer have access to foreign workers would have no choice but to turn to Americans who are still struggling to find work: people with disabilities, teenagers, older people and even former convicts.He also said that modest increases in wages for workers would evaporate if companies were allowed to simply tap an unlimited pool of lower-paid workers from other countries.“If you want wages to go up,” Mr. Krikorian said, “you don’t import more foreign labor.”Business groups dispute that analysis. They argue that immigration expands the amount of business activity in the United States, adding jobs and increasing wages for the vast majority of American workers.“Our country has benefited tremendously from welcoming people who have contributed to our economy, our communities, across the board,” said James Davis, a spokesman for the Koch network. “We want to welcome in everyone who wants to contribute to our society. We want to see more legal immigration.”Todd Schulte, the president of FWD.us, a pro-immigration advocacy group that started with backing from Mark Zuckerberg, a founder of Facebook, said that “immigrants and immigration increase economic growth, they increase economic productivity and they increase wages for the overwhelming number of native-born Americans.”Mr. Schulte, whose group has been highly critical of Mr. Trump’s anti-immigrant messaging and policies, welcomed the president’s recognition that legal immigration is a positive thing for the United States’ economy.But he cautioned that Mr. Trump must be measured by his actions, not his words. He called on the president to halt the effort to deny the H-4 work permits to immigrant spouses.“He should stop trying to revoke the H-4 rule,” Mr. Schulte said. “Increasing legal immigration would help native-born Americans. Unfortunately, the record has been one bent on cutting overall immigration levels.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the network on which Lou Dobbs hosts a nightly program. It is Fox Business Network, not Fox News.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersWASHINGTON — Two U.S. senators introduced a bill on Tuesday to ban online social media companies like Facebook Inc and Twitter Inc from tricking consumers into giving up their personal data.The bill from Mark Warner, a Democrat, and Deb Fischer, a Republican, would also ban online platforms with more than 100 million monthly active users from designing addicting games or other websites for children under age 13. The bill takes aim at practices that online platforms use to mislead people into giving personal data to companies or otherwise trick them. The so-called ""dark patterns"" were developed using behavioral psychology.""Misleading prompts to just click the ‘OK’ button can often transfer your contacts, messages, browsing activity, photos, or location information without you even realizing it,"" Fischer said in a statement issued by both senators.Restrictions on how social media companies collect information about users could hurt their ability to sell advertisements, a key source of profit. A website aimed at tracking dark patterns identifies behavior, such as a website or app showing that a user has new notifications when they do not. Warner said in an interview on CNBC that the legislation could be included in a federal privacy bill that lawmakers in the Senate Commerce Committee are drafting. Congress has been expected to take up privacy legislation after California passed a strict privacy law that goes into effect next year.Warner noted that Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg, Google and others have expressed support for privacy regulation.""The platform companies are now going to have an opportunity to put their money where their mouth is, to see if they support this legislation and other approaches,"" he said. The bill would bar companies from choosing groups of people for behavioral experiments unless the companies get informed consent.Under the terms of the bill, social media companies would create a professional standards body to create best practices to deal with the issue. The Federal Trade Commission, which investigates deceptive advertising, would work with the group.Facebook, Google, Twitter and other free online services rely on advertising for revenue, and use data collected on users to more effectively target those ads.The story refiles to fix typographical error in last paragraph to make it ""rely"" instead of ""relay"" (Reporting by Diane Bartz; Editing by Susan Thomas and Jonathan Oatis)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Monday. (Want this ny email? Sign up here.)Saudi Aramco began a road show to pitch prospective investors on a $10 billion bond offering, providing a peek into the state-owned oil company’s books — and showing how incredibly profitable it is.Aramco made $111.1 billion in profit last year, according to data provided to credit ratings agencies. That means it was the world’s most profitable company in 2018, Bloomberg notes, making more than Apple and Alphabet combined.The company produced 13.6 million barrels of oil equivalent a day last year, which far surpasses any other producer, such as Royal Dutch Shell or BP.The disclosures finally shed light on the oil company’s finances and operations. (They were necessary as part of the bond offering that will support Aramco’s $69 billion deal to buy control of a Saudi chemical company, Sabic.)Credit ratings agencies were impressed. Moody’s assigned Aramco’s bonds an A1 rating (though still below the Aaa that it gave to Exxon Mobil). The agency said the biggest risk to the rating was any downgrade to Saudi Arabia’s own financial picture.Facebook’s C.E.O. wrote an opinion piece for the WaPo on Saturday laying out how he believes his company should be treated. His top policy executive, Nick Clegg, echoed its points in an interview with Politico. Here’s how Mike Isaac of the NYT reads between the lines:• Harmful content. Mr. Zuckerberg called for lawmakers to decide “what counts as terrorist propaganda, hate speech and more.” By adhering to the letter of the law, Facebook can effectively shield itself from blame if something goes awry.• Election protection. “Our systems would be more effective if regulation created common standards for verifying political actors,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. That would serve Facebook well, Mr. Isaac writes: “When the next erroneous outburst inevitably occurs, Facebook could point toward the law it was forced to follow.”• Privacy and data protection issues. “I believe it would be good for the internet if more countries adopted regulation such as G.D.P.R. as a common framework,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote, referring to Europe’s data protection rule. If laws are enacted to limit data collection in the future, Mr. Isaac notes, Facebook might be able to squash smaller competitors.• Data portability. “Regulation should guarantee the principle of data portability,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. Facebook claims its users would be able to freely take their information from one network to the next, Mr. Isaac says. But in reality, data portability could help the company combine its platforms, which include Instagram and WhatsApp.More: Facebook will start explaining why people are being shown content in their news feed. The company “mistakenly deleted” many of Mr. Zuckerberg’s old posts. And lawmakers in Australia and New Zealand want to ban “weaponized” social media.As the two countries nudge ever closer to striking an agreement, Ana Swanson and Keith Bradsher of the NYT explain how one of its key tenets could undercut Washington’s vision:• “Any agreement seems certain to involve China’s promise to purchase hundreds of billions of dollars of American goods. For Mr. Trump, this is an essential element that will help reduce the United States’ record trade deficit with China.”• “But those purchases will be ordered by the Chinese state, and most will be carried out by state-controlled Chinese businesses, further cementing Beijing’s role in managing its economy and potentially making United States industries even more beholden to the Chinese.”“Both sides are trying to iron out an agreement by next week, to coincide with a visit to Washington by Liu He, the Chinese special envoy charged with negotiating the deal,” Ms. Swanson and Mr. Bradsher write. The goal is reportedly “to have an agreement by the end of that meeting, with a signing ceremony between Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China potentially later this month.”But there are still sticking points. “Those include how an agreement will be monitored and enforced, and how many of Mr. Trump’s tariffs come off and when,” according to Ms. Swanson and Mr. Bradsher.The ride-hailing company began trading on the public markets on Friday, with its stock closing up about 9 percent. But the file of winners is bigger than just those who bought into the stock before it listed:• Gig economy start-ups. Lyft showed that there’s interest in the public markets for companies that rely on part-time employees. (But the big question is still whether they can ever make money.)• The Golden State, truly. Lyft’s success bodes well for its home state, California, which is set to collect a capital-gains tax bonanza from the tech companies planning to go public this year. Alejandro Lazo of the WSJ reports that the state is already expected to draw nearly 10 percent of its revenue for the next fiscal year from tech I.P.O.s — a figure that could grow if the offerings perform better than expected.• Uber. The world’s largest ride-hailing company will probably be heartened by Lyft’s success. One unnamed investor told the FT that a $120 billion valuation for Uber now “doesn’t look too unreasonable.”Who didn’t win: Anyone who bought shares in Lyft after it listed on the Nasdaq.More: Meet the V.C.s who are expected to be big winners from the coming wave of tech I.P.O.s.After rejecting Prime Minister Theresa May’s withdrawal deal for a third time on Friday, British lawmakers will attempt again to come up with an alternative.Parliament will vote on options later today. There are eight proposals, none of which won a majority when they were voted on last week. John Bercow, the speaker of the House of Commons, may trim down the options, which could force cohesion around a plan. Mrs. May continues to scramble. The FT reports that she is considering a fourth vote on her deal, while she grapples with a breakdown of trust inside her Conservative Party.If Parliament remains deadlocked, Britain faces a choice: Leave the European Union without a deal on April 12, or ask Brussels for another extension.There is a feeling of anger and embarrassment. “In interviews, many Britons expressed despair over the inability of the political system to produce a compromise,” Ellen Barry and Benjamin Mueller of the NYT write. “No one feels that the government has represented their interests. No one is satisfied. No one is hopeful. It has amounted to a hollowing out of confidence in democracy itself.”More:  There is at least one Brexit winner in Britain: the corporate law industry, which is profiting from companies trying to prepare.The Amazon chief’s security consultant accused the Saudi government of gaining unauthorized access to Mr. Bezos’ phone, Karen Weise of the NYT reports:• “In an opinion article in The Daily Beast on Saturday, Gavin de Becker, Mr. Bezos’ security chief, alleged the Saudis wanted to hurt Mr. Bezos because he owns The Washington Post. The Post has aggressively reported on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, one of its columnists, who was killed last year in Turkey.”• “Mr. de Becker’s claims about the Saudis are difficult to verify and raise many questions. Throughout his article, the security consultant was vague on details.”• “On Sunday, American Media Inc., the parent company of The National Enquirer, which first reported earlier this year that Mr. Bezos was having an extramarital affair, issued a statement denying ‘the false and unsubstantiated claims of Mr. de Becker.’ ”State lawmakers reached a $175 billion budget deal over the weekend. It promises sweeping changes to the way New Yorkers commute, shop and live, the NYT reports.Congestion pricing — a first in the U.S. — will subject vehicles traveling below 60th Street in Manhattan to a toll. The revenue will go toward the subway and other transportation projects. Specifics, like what the charge will be, have been deferred to other authorities.The state also banned single-use plastic shopping bags, following California and Hawaii.But it dropped plans for a recurring “pied-à-terre tax” of 5 percent on the value of high-end second homes, after opposition from the real estate industry. Instead, lawmakers adopted a “mansion tax” and a real estate transfer tax, two one-time charges that would top out at 4.15 percent on the sale of properties worth at least $25 million.The Louis Dreyfus Company reportedly ousted Gonzalo Ramírez Martiarena as C.E.O. after he started holding deal talks with rivals.Alok Sama, the C.F.O. of SoftBank’s international arm, is reportedly leaving the Japanese tech giant.Deals• The activist hedge fund Starboard Value has dropped its campaign against Bristol-Myers Squibb’s deal to buy Celgene. (CNBC)• The talent agency Endeavor is reportedly preparing an I.P.O. later this year. (WSJ)• Vivendi withdrew a motion to replace directors of Telecom Italia, conceding defeat to Elliott Management. (Bloomberg)• Jonathan Lavine, a managing partner of Bain Capital, worries that private equity firms are piling too much debt onto their deals. (FT)• European lenders are starting to grow wary of giving money to WeWork. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• President Trump reportedly thinks that a lawsuit to overturn the Affordable Care Act — which his administration is backing — will fail. (Axios)• A federal judge ruled against the White House’s plan to open up the Arctic Ocean for oil drilling. (NYT)• Joe Biden scrambled to defend himself after a former Nevada lawmaker accused him of inappropriately kissing and touching her. (NYT)• Senator Elizabeth Warren has lost her presidential campaign’s finance director after a disagreement over abandoning big-ticket donors. (NYT)• Mr. Trump reportedly wants to “save” Ruth Bader Ginsburg’s seat on the Supreme Court for Amy Coney Barrett, a conservative federal judge who opposes abortion. (Axios)Boeing• The inquiry into the fatal Ethiopian Airlines crash is said to believe a faulty anti-stall sensor was to blame. (NYT)• “Pitch up, pitch up”: the final minutes of the doomed flight. (WSJ)• U.S. and Ethiopian investigators are reportedly clashing over the investigation. (WSJ)Tech• The initial coin offering market has ground to a halt. (WSJ)• Google has stopped serving ads in China for two websites that help bypass censorship. Skeptics say the move is an attempt to appeal to Beijing. (FT)• Alphabet’s A.I. subsidiary, DeepMind, is readying its first commercial product: a device that will diagnose some complex eye diseases in real time. (FT)• Some consumers are accusing Tesla of using upselling tricks to move more expensive cars. (Quartz)Best of the rest• Michael Avenatti has taken on many high-profile legal fights, but his biggest yet is his own court case. (NYT)• How the financier Morrie Tobin became the whistle-blower in the college admissions scandal. (LAT)• A federal judge wants to limit PG&E’s dividends to force the utility to reduce the risk of causing California wildfires. (WSJ)• How tens of thousands of far-right extremists helped swindle $1 billion from the federal government. (NYT)• Burger King is introducing a meat-free “Impossible Whopper.” (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IsaacSAN FRANCISCO — Facebook’s worst year ever was its best year ever when it came to its business.After a string of scandals in 2018 damaged its reputation and raised questions about its handling of people’s data, the social network said Wednesday that it had gained new users around the world in the fourth quarter and reported a record profit. Facebook also posted its full results for 2018, which showed its total revenue and profit reaching record levels.The  results suggested that advertisers had continued to spend money on the site and that users were not deterred by Facebook’s issues, which include the spreading of disinformation and election meddling. The company had said last year that it expected its growth to slow as it spent to improve the privacy and security of its users.“One of the biggest questions people have about Facebook is whether we can make the massive investments we’re making to monitor and protect the platform while we keep growing our business,” Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, said in an interview on Wednesday. “This quarter shows we can do both.”Yet even as its growth continued, Facebook began de-emphasizing its core social network and started highlighting its family of apps, which include Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger. Facebook said it would eventually stop sharing user numbers for each individual service and instead provide one combined figure for all of its apps.The change is part of a strategy by Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, to knit together its businesses into one overarching network. Last week, The New York Times reported that he planned to integrate the technical infrastructure of WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger so that people could talk across the services for the first time. The move, which the company hopes to complete by the end of the year or by early 2020, could provide Facebook opportunities for additional revenue from messaging activity and would increase the utility of all of the apps.In a call with investors on Wednesday, Mr. Zuckerberg confirmed the report, calling the move an eventual boon for users. People want messaging that is “fast, private and reliable,” he said.The moves followed a difficult year for Facebook, as questions about the unintended consequences of social media have sharpened. The company has faced scrutiny over improper handling of its users’ data, its largest-ever security breach last year, and the distribution of false content and foreign influence campaigns across its network.This week, Facebook has been grappling with a report by TechCrunch that it paid people to install an app that would suck in all of their phone and web activity. That has renewed questions about Facebook’s approach to user privacy and prompted criticism from Apple, which oversees iPhone apps.For its fourth quarter, Facebook’s revenue rose 30 percent from a year earlier to $16.9 billion, while profits jumped 61 percent to $6.9 billion. Seven million advertisers spend money on the platform, the company said, and in a shift, more than two million now buy ads in Facebook’s Stories, one of its newer products.Facebook also said its daily active users had risen 9 percent from a year earlier to 1.52 billion, the same rate as in the previous quarter. Notably, the number of new users increased in every geography; in previous quarters, growth stagnated in the United States and in Europe. In total, Facebook said, 2.7 billion people now use its core social network and its other apps.The company added that its estimate of fake accounts on its site had jumped 27 percent from the third quarter to 116 million, while duplicate accounts rose 12.5 percent to 255 million.The overall results surpassed Wall Street estimates and sent shares of Facebook soaring more than 11 percent in after-hours trading. The company’s share price had plunged about 34 percent over the past year, down from a high of $218 in July.Facebook also said it expected that other investments in new products in areas such as e-commerce and payments systems would yield new revenue streams.Still, executives cautioned on Wednesday that profit margins would begin to thin in the coming year. Facebook increased its number of employees to more than 35,000 in 2018, up 42 percent, as it added more people to fight disinformation and moderate content on the site. Operating expenses will keep rising, the company said, as Facebook hires in key areas to deal with the issues.“A lot of our business challenges have been self-imposed,” Mr. Zuckerberg said on the call.Follow Mike Isaac on Twitter: @MikeIsaac.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kate CongerSAN FRANCISCO — What would happen if Facebook and some of its apps — such as Instagram and WhatsApp — were to all go down at about the same time? And then stay intermittently out for hours?On Wednesday, people around the world found out when all three services experienced interruptions throughout the day.The problems began around 11 a.m. Eastern Time and affected users in countries including the United States, Japan, Australia and Mexico, according to DownDetector, an analytics service that calls itself a weather report for the internet.On Instagram, profiles refused to load. Some Facebook users logged on to empty news feeds, while others could see their friends’ updates but couldn’t like them. And WhatsApp users had trouble sending and receiving messages.As of 1 p.m. Eastern time on Thursday, most of Facebook’s services had been restored. Instagram was back online, although Facebook’s main app still faced some outages.“Yesterday, we made a server configuration change that triggered a cascading series of issues,” a Facebook spokesman said. “As a result, many people had difficulty accessing our apps and services. We have resolved the issues, and our systems have been recovering over the last few hours. We are very sorry for the inconvenience and we appreciate everyone’s patience.”Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, recently announced a push to bring all of his apps closer together, uniting direct messages across different services. The service interruptions highlighted the potential risks of a consolidated social media giant, as users flitted from one lonely social feed to the next, searching fruitlessly for updates.Even Facebook’s own bug report platform — in which it discloses what services are down — was offline. So the company used one of the only major social media platforms it doesn’t own, Twitter, to announce updates.The company added that the issues were not the result of a cyberattack.Instagram separately said it knew the experience was “frustrating.”Since Facebook and its apps have so many users — around 2.7 billion around the world — the venting was, understandably, heightened. Some people expressed grief at the apps being unavailable.Others said they were fleeing — where else? — to Twitter.Follow Kate Conger on Twitter: @kateconger.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byTim Cook keeps taking on Facebook, but Facebook’s stock keeps rising. By Kara SwisherMs. Swisher covers technology and is a contributing opinion writer. The ongoing tension between Apple and Facebook flared again this week, causing a dramatic hubbub in the tech industry. I’d argue it was a nothing burger. Not because it was unimportant, but because it’s clear that despite persistent evidence that our privacy is being violated, it might not matter. Basically, the two digital giants engaged in an esoteric tussle over how Facebook did an end run around Apple’s very strict rules about data use on its app platform in order to suck up more user data. Through an app intended for internal use, Facebook paid people — including teenagers — $20 a month to track everything they did online. Since Facebook had been warned about this kind of thing before, Apple — noting the move was in “clear breach of their agreement” — retaliated by cutting off the oxygen, and Facebook’s access to its own internal apps. It did not, as many suggested it should, shut off other popular consumer-facing offerings on the iPhone like Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp.Shall I explain more? No, I shall not, because the details hardly matter, except to note that what Facebook did is the equivalent of sneaking out of the house after the curfew your parents imposed after you last sneaked out of the house. To put it more plainly, it was obnoxious and squirrelly and just the kind of behavior that we all now assume the company is capable of. Which is to say, we don’t trust Facebook in any way when it comes to using and protecting the data we entrust to it.[Kara Swisher will answer your questions about this column on Twitter on Friday at 2 p.m. Eastern: @KaraSwisher.]And neither does Apple and its chief executive, Tim Cook. Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook founder and chief executive, is clearly getting on Mr. Cook’s last nerve. I feel a little responsible for the acrimony, since it was in an MSNBC interview I did with Mr. Cook in March that the older, more seasoned executive decided to go full-bore on the young, leadership-challenged one.At the time, Facebook was in the news for the rampant abuse of its platform by Russia, so I asked Mr. Cook about data abuse. He started by comparing Apple’s business model to one like Facebook’s: “The truth is, we could make a ton of money if we monetized our customer — if our customer was our product. We’ve elected not to do that.”Then I asked: What would he do to fix it if he were Mr. Zuckerberg? His devastating answer: “What would I do? I wouldn’t be in this situation.”Ouch. In Silicon Valley terms that response was akin to Cardi B beefing on Nicki Minaj, except quantumly more geeky. There was a sharp intake of breath from everyone in tech, and a very pissy response from Mr. Zuckerberg, in which he called Mr. Cook “extremely glib.”He then asked his employees to use Google’s Android phones instead of iPhones “because it is the most popular operating system in the world.”Uh huh. Except that seems not to have worked and clearly many of his employees ignored the directive. There were reports that iPhone users at Facebook were left stranded this week when Apple cut off the company’s ability to use other beta and internal apps on the iOS platform. Along with unreleased versions of apps, that also meant employees could not access things like bus schedules and cafeteria lunch menus. Apple has since reinstated use of those internal apps. Not knowing which fresh kombucha was being served at 1 Hacker Way obviously hit Facebook techies where they lived, which was the point. It’s interesting to compare Apple’s response this time to a comparable episode with Google. TechCrunch (which broke the original story on the rogue Facebook app) noted that Google had done a similar thing with a research app. Apple did cut off its internal apps, but there was no public hand-slapping, and the tone between the companies has been cordial. The difference: Mr. Cook has been irritated with Mr. Zuckerberg for a while, as tech companies like Apple have been lumped into the messes that Facebook has created, problems that have attracted the ire of regulators and the media.It is not just Mr. Cook. A top executive at another tech giant termed it the “Facebook contagion,” and added, “they are infecting all of tech with their sloppy mistakes.”But what’s most remarkable is how much Mr. Cook has become the critic-in-chief for Facebook. It gets harder to play that role, however, when Apple makes mistakes, too. This week we learned that its FaceTime service had a significant bug that allowed people to spy on other people’s phones. Attorney General Letitia James of New York and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota both criticized Apple for being slow to reveal the issue to the public.It was too slow. But in the end Apple was properly apologetic and did shut down the glitch. Still, it’s not a good look to have a major privacy snafu right after touting your commitment to privacy.And it comes at a dicey time for Apple, which recently warned it was seeing weaker financial results and is under pressure to introduce even more new and innovative products. There is no rest for Mr. Cook, and many observers, including me, have posited that the next years for Apple will be challenging. Still, it’s interesting that Mr. Cook climbed out on this limb anyway. Some insiders at Facebook are alleging he did so to get the heat off Apple’s troubles. But that’s a canard. Mr. Cook has long been vocal about distinguishing Apple from Facebook when it comes to user data and the importance of protecting privacy.The bigger problem is that such an important issue might turn out to be the real nothing burger. Facebook turned in another stellar quarter this week, which made its stock rise strongly. So despite all the sketchy things the company is accused of doing by Apple and many others, most investors and analysts don’t seem to care, and they will never care, as long as its digital advertising business — goosed by its astonishing and nakedly ambitious ability to suck in data, data and more data from all of us — continues to impress. Simply put, Wall Street does not care. Or to use an old bromide: Facebook is so poor, all it has is money.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram, and sign up for the Opinion Today newsletter. Kara Swisher, editor at large for the technology news website Recode and producer of the Recode Decode podcast and Code Conference, is a contributing opinion writer.  @karaswisher • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated Press___Once-counterculture 420 marijuana holiday goes mainstreamLOS ANGELES (AP) — Businesses inside and outside the multibillion-dollar marijuana industry are embracing the once-counterculture four-twenty holiday. Potheads have for decades celebrated their love of cannabis on April 20. But the annual celebration that was all about getting stoned is now so mainstream that Corporate America is starting to embrace it. Lyft and Carl's Jr. are among the businesses using April 20 to roll out marketing and social media messaging aimed at cannabis consumers.___US home construction slips 0.3% in MarchWASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. home construction slipped 0.3% in March, as housing starts are running below last year's pace in a sign that inventory could be a challenge for would-be buyers. The Commerce Department says that housing starts last month were a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.14 million.___Ancestry pulls slavery-era ad after backlashNEW YORK (AP) — Ancestry.com is apologizing for its ad that showed a white man and black woman discussing running off together to the North during the Civil War era. The ad drew widespread criticism online for whitewashing slavery. The DNA testing company removed the ad from TV and online in response to the backlash.___Toyota, SoftBank fund, Denso invest $1 billion in UberTOKYO (AP) — Japan's top automaker Toyota, auto parts maker Denso and internet company SoftBank's investment fund are investing $1 billion in car-sharing Uber's technology unit. The companies say Toyota Motor Corp. and Denso Corp. will together invest $667 million and SoftBank Corp.'s Vision Fund will contribute $333 million in Uber ATG, which will try to develop and commercialize automated ridesharing services. Toyota has been stepping up such efforts.___How many cherries in frozen pie? FDA may soon drop rulesNEW YORK (AP) — President Donald Trump may soon be able to claim a sweet victory for his deregulation push: Officials are preparing to get rid of decades-old rules for labeling frozen cherry pies. The regulations say the products must be at least 25% cherries by weight. The obscure rule is seen as an easy target because there are no rules for other pies. Getting rid of the cherry pie rules is likely to be far less controversial than the debate over what can be called milk.___Global stocks modestly higher in quiet holiday tradingTOKYO (AP) — Global stock indexes are mostly moderately higher in quiet holiday trading on Good Friday as some markets are closed. Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225, South Korea's Kospi and the Shanghai Composite are higher. Trading was closed in France, Germany and the U.K. Other markets also remain closed for the holiday, including in the U.S., Hong Kong and Australia.___Celebration of Japan's new era big opportunity for businessTOKYO (AP) — Japan is getting ready for its biggest celebration in years with the advent of the Reiwa era of soon-to-be emperor Naruhito. That means big opportunities for businesses hoping consumers will splash out on long holidays and memorabilia. Many Japanese will get their longest ever ""Golden Week"" holidays, 10 days, and some are taking advantage of deep discounts. The expected downsides: monster traffic jams and struggles to keep store shelves stocked with so many people getting time off.___Report: FTC considering oversight of Facebook's ZuckerbergWASHINGTON (AP) — Washington Post says discussions between Facebook and Federal Trade Commission officials about the company's data-handing lapses have touched on instituting some sort of oversight for company CEO Mark Zuckerberg. The Facebook founder also controls a majority of Facebook's voting stock.___Panel to review approval of Boeing 737 Max flight controlsDETROIT (AP) — A global team of experts next week will begin reviewing how the Boeing 737 Max's flight control system was approved by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration. The FAA says experts from nine international civil aviation authorities have confirmed participation in a technical review promised by the agency. The Boeing jetliner has been grounded around the world since mid-March after two crashes killed 346 people.___China downplays political impact of global development pushBEIJING (AP) — China is downplaying the political implications of its global development campaign known as the Belt and Road initiative, saying that it aims to boost multilateralism amid protectionist trends in the U.S. and elsewhere. Foreign Minister Wang Yi said a meeting to promote the initiative next week in Beijing would draw leaders from 37 countries, underscoring heavy demand for Chinese investment.___Alibaba head's remarks spark debate over China working hoursBEIJING (AP) — Remarks by the head of Chinese online business giant Alibaba that young people should work from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. six days a week if they want financial success have prompted a debate over work-life balance. Jack Ma is one of China's richest men and his comments brought both condemnation and support as China's economic growth has slowed. Grueling hours are credited with fueling China's economic rise but also a deteriorating quality of life.___Fiat Chrysler recalls over 300K cars due to rollaway riskDETROIT (AP) — Fiat Chrysler is recalling more than 300,000 vehicles in North America because a transmission problem could cause them to roll away unexpectedly. The recall covers Dodge Dart compact cars from the 2013 through 2016 with six-speed automatic transmissions. The company says a bushing can fail, causing the shifter cable to come loose from the transmission. That means when a driver shifts to park or another gear, the gear may not change and the car could roll away.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byTo own a slice of two of the hottest tech start-ups going public, investors will have to give up equal voting power. By Peter EavisThe initial public offerings of Lyft and Pinterest will give investors the chance to buy into young, fast-growing companies led by founders with ambitious visions.But to get a piece of that action, investors will have to give up something big: an equal say in how the companies are run.Lyft, a ride-share company, and Pinterest, a social media network, will deprive their new shareholders of full voting rights when they go public in the coming days and weeks. Both companies plan to issue shares to a small number of insiders that have far more voting power than the shares everyone else will own.The use of two classes of shares has become increasingly popular among Silicon Valley start-ups going public. But such share structures have also prompted a backlash. Big investors, corporate-governance experts and even some tech executives warn that the issuance of super-voting shares undermines the system of accountability that has long been a pillar of public stock markets.Still, the Lyft and Pinterest offerings show that the desire to retain control after going public remains strong.Both Pinterest and Lyft are issuing two classes of stock, one that gives its holders 20 votes each and another, owned by outside investors, that will have one vote each.In Lyft’s case, the two founders, Logan Green and John Zimmer, will control 49 percent of the company’s voting power, while holding just under 5 percent of the overall shares. Pinterest has not yet disclosed numbers needed to do a similar breakdown. Google opted for a dual-class structure as it went public in 2004, when it was fairly unusual for tech companies to do so. Facebook issued shares that gave control to its founders in its 2012 I.P.O. Snap, a social media company, sold shares to the public in 2017 with no voting rights, which prompted an outcry. But that hasn’t slowed their adoption. Last year, nearly two-thirds of technology companies going public had more than one class of shares, compared with a quarter five years earlier, according to data from Dealogic.And it’s not just technology companies that have embraced maintaining control. Levi Strauss, which went public last week, has shares that put most of the voting power in the hands of its founder’s descendants. And some media companies, The New York Times Company included, have special shares that give control to their holders.Uber may buck this trend, though. The ride-sharing company is preparing to make its public market debut this year and is expected to do so with one class of stock.As owners of a company, shareholders expect to have some sway over management. Full voting rights give them a greater voice in who’s on the board and how much executives get paid, and on big decisions, like whether to sell the company. Diminishing public holders’ voting rights can give insiders too much power and insulate executives who make poor decisions. Strong boards, as well as the looming threat of activist investors, do a lot to assure top executives are responsive, says Glenn Kelman, chief executive of Redfin, an online real estate brokerage. “The feeling that I serve at the pleasure of the board, that it is a privilege to work at Redfin, is fundamental to this company and the best of business culture,” he said.It’s hard to say definitively whether companies with unequal voting rights perform better or worse over time. Google has grown strongly over the years, but so have Apple, Amazon and Microsoft, which don’t give special control to insiders. Viacom’s stock has done poorly while CBS’s has done quite well; Sumner M. Redstone, with the help of his daughter, Shari Redstone, controls both companies through voting shares. Much also depends on the type of control a company grants. Robert J. Jackson Jr., a commissioner at the Securities and Exchange Commission, has cited analysis showing that companies that give control to insiders in perpetuity ended up with lower valuations on the stock market than those that planned to get rid of unequal voting rights after a certain period.The question of control may become crucial when a company gets into trouble. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, faltered in his response to abuse of the company’s network and data. Shareholder advisory groups last year pressed for changes that they said would improve governance, including setting up a special risk committee on the board, but they did not get the necessary votes.  Mr. Zuckerberg enjoys the protection of powerful voting shares. Facebook did not respond to a request for comment.Perhaps the biggest is that they can shield executives from pressures to bolster a company’s performance in the near term and give them more freedom to make investments that take time to pay off. Google has made that argument.Of course, it is possible for companies that don’t issue special controlling shares to shrug off the “short-termism” of the stock market. Amazon has plowed significant sums into new businesses for years and is among the most valuable companies in the world. But companies at a vulnerable stage in their development may benefit from giving control to their leaders as they pursue their visions for their companies. Lyft, for instance, is planning big investments in self-driving vehicle technology, and the company’s stock may suffer if they don’t immediately bear fruit. And though Facebook’s controlling shares may have helped set the stage for its stumbles, the arrangement may also have helped the company respond. Since the scandals, Facebook has increased its spending to safeguard its network. Wall Street analysts have at times questioned the need for such costs, but Mr. Zuckerberg can mostly ignore them because of the voting power in his hands.Some efforts to address the use of high-voting shares have focused on how long these classes of shares exist. Critics oppose arrangements that allow the holders to keep control until they die, or those that allow the shares to be passed on to descendants. These create what Mr. Jackson, the S.E.C. commissioner, has called “corporate royalty.”Instead of granting long-term or perpetual control, a few companies have adopted structures that convert controlling shares into ordinary shares after a certain number of years. But this approach has failed to gain traction. In the three years through 2018, only 29 percent of the I.P.O.s with special controlling shares had a provision that allow their superior voting power to expire after a certain period, according to a New York Times analysis of data provided by the Council of Institutional Investors, a group that has criticized unequal voting rights.Lyft’s controlling shares won’t lose any of their power over time, but the company has attempted to bolster its corporate governance by having an independent chairman. Other companies have taken this step, including Snap, but it hasn’t been enough to satisfy critics of unequal share classes. “A lot of companies think an independent chair is a good idea, but is that person going to last forever?” Mr. Jackson said, “Is there anything to stop them from removing the independent chair?”Pinterest has a seven-year time limit, but it only kicks in if the holders of the high-voting shares own less than half the shares they had just before I.P.O. “I would not count that as a true, time-based sunset,” said Andrew Winden, a fellow at Stanford Law School Rock Center for Corporate Governance, referring to phaseout provisions. Peter Eavis is a New York based reporter covering companies and markets. Before coming to the Times in 2012, he worked at The Wall Street Journal.   @uwsgeezer Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byDeep learning, deep insights, deep artificial minds — the list goes on and on. But with unprecedented promise comes some unprecedented peril.By Thomas L. FriedmanOpinion ColumnistAround the end of each year major dictionaries declare their “word of the year.” Last year, for instance, the most looked-up word at Merriam-Webster.com was “justice.” Well, even though it’s early, I’m ready to declare the word of the year for 2019.The word is “deep.”Why? Because recent advances in the speed and scope of digitization, connectivity, big data and artificial intelligence are now taking us “deep” into places and into powers that we’ve never experienced before — and that governments have never had to regulate before. I’m talking about deep learning, deep insights, deep surveillance, deep facial recognition, deep voice recognition, deep automation and deep artificial minds.Some of these technologies offer unprecedented promise and some unprecedented peril — but they’re all now part of our lives. Everything is going deep.Which is why it may not be an accident that one of the biggest hit songs today is “Shallow,” from the movie “A Star Is Born.” The main refrain, sung by Lady Gaga and Bradley Cooper, is: “I’m off the deep end, watch as I dive in. … We’re far from the shallow now.”We sure are. But the lifeguard is still on the beach and — here’s what’s really scary — he doesn’t know how to swim! More about that later. For now, how did we get so deep down where the sharks live?The short answer: Technology moves up in steps, and each step, each new platform, is usually biased toward a new set of capabilities. Around the year 2000 we took a huge step up that was biased toward connectivity, because of the explosion of fiber-optic cable, wireless and satellites.Suddenly connectivity became so fast, cheap, easy for you and ubiquitous that it felt like you could touch someone whom you could never touch before and that you could be touched by someone who could never touch you before.Around 2007, we took another big step up. The iPhone, sensors, digitization, big data, the internet of things, artificial intelligence and cloud computing melded together and created a new platform that was biased toward abstracting complexity at a speed, scope and scale we’d never experienced before. So many complex things became simplified. Complexity became so fast, free, easy to use and invisible that soon with one touch on Uber’s app you could page a taxi, direct a taxi, pay a taxi, rate a taxi driver and be rated by a taxi driver.Over the last decade, these advances in the speed of connectivity and the elimination of complexity have grown exponentially. Because as big data got really big, as broadband got really fast, as algorithms got really smart, as 5G got actually deployed, artificial intelligence got really intelligent. So now, with no touch — but just a voice command or machines acting autonomously — we can go so much deeper in so many areas.Scientists and doctors can now find the needle in the haystack of health data as the norm, not the exception, and therefore see certain disease patterns that were never apparent before. Machines can recognize your face so accurately that the Chinese government can punish you for jaywalking in Beijing, using street cameras, and you will never encounter a police officer. Indeed, with today’s facial recognition technology, I can dispense with the card reader at my office’s security gate and instead use each employee’s face as an ID. And cars can drive on their own.DeepMind, the artificial intelligence arm of Google’s parent, developed an A.I. program, AlphaGo, that has now defeated the world’s top human players of the ancient strategy game Go — which is much more complex than chess — by learning from human play. As The Times reported, DeepMind “showed yet another way that computers could be developed to perform better than humans in highly complex tasks” and to “mimic the way the brain functions.” DeepMind’s next breakthrough, AlphaZero, did not even need to learn from humans. It learned even faster by repeatedly playing against itself!Today “virtual agents” — using conversational interfaces powered by artificial intelligence — can increasingly understand your intent when you call the bank, credit card company or insurance company for service, just by hearing your voice. It means machines can answer so many more questions than nonmachines, also known as “humans.” The percentage of calls a chatbot, or virtual agent, is able to handle without turning the caller over to a person is called its “containment rate,” and these rates are steadily soaring. Soon, automated systems will be so humanlike that they will have to self-identify as machines.Automation is also going deep, fast. The Times’s Kevin Roose quoted Mohit Joshi, the president of Infosys, a technology firm that helps other businesses automate their operations, as saying in Davos last week: “People are looking to achieve very big numbers. Earlier they had incremental, 5 to 10 percent goals in reducing their work force. Now they’re saying, ‘Why can’t we do it with 1 percent of the people we have?’”But bad guys, who are always early adopters, also see the same potential to go deep in wholly new ways. They can fake your face and voice so well that they can create a YouTube video that will go viral of you saying racist things or make it look like the president of the United States just announced a nuclear attack on Russia. They can use technology to fake a bank manager’s voice so well that it can call your grandmother, and, with a voice command, ask her to transfer $10,000 to an account in Switzerland and she’ll do it — and you’ll never catch them in time.That’s why the adjective that so many people are affixing to all of these new capabilities to convey their awesome power is “deep.”On Jan. 20, The London Observer looked at Harvard Business School professor Shoshana Zuboff’s new book, the title of which perfectly describes the deep dark waters we’ve entered: “The Age of Surveillance Capital.”“Surveillance capitalism,” Zuboff wrote, “unilaterally claims human experience as free raw material for translation into behavioral data. Although some of these data are applied to service improvement, the rest are declared as a proprietary behavioral surplus, fed into advanced manufacturing processes known as ‘machine intelligence,’ and fabricated into prediction products that anticipate what you will do now, soon and later. Finally, these prediction products are traded in a new kind of marketplace that I call behavioral futures markets. Surveillance capitalists have grown immensely wealthy from these trading operations, for many companies are willing to lay bets on our future behavior.”Unfortunately, we have not developed the regulations or governance, or scaled the ethics, to manage a world of such deep powers, deep interactions and deep potential abuses.Two quotes tell that story: Last April, Senator Orrin Hatch was questioning Facebook C.E.O. Mark Zuckerberg during a joint hearing of the commerce and judiciary committees. At one point Hatch asked Zuckerberg, “So, how do you sustain a business model in which users don’t pay for your service?”Zuckerberg, clearly trying to stifle a laugh, replied, “Senator, we run ads.” Hatch did not seem to understand that Facebook’s business model is to mine users’ data and then run targeted ads — and Hatch was one of Facebook’s regulators.But then Zuckerberg was also clueless about how deep the powers of the Facebook platform had gone — deep enough that a few smart Russian hackers could manipulate it to help Donald Trump win the presidency.When faced with evidence that fake news spread on Facebook influenced the outcome of the 2016 election, Zuckerberg dismissed that notion as a “pretty crazy idea.” It turns out that it was happening at an industrial scale and he later had to apologize.Regulations often lag behind new technologies, but when they move this fast and cut this deep, that lag can be really dangerous. I wish I thought that catch-up was around the corner. I don’t. Our national discussion has never been more shallow — reduced to 280 characters.This has created an opening and burgeoning demand for political, social and religious leaders, government institutions and businesses that can go deep — that can validate what is real and offer the public deep truths, deep privacy protections and deep trust.But deep trust and deep loyalty cannot be forged overnight. They take time. That’s one reason this old newspaper I work for — the Gray Lady — is doing so well today. Not all, but many people, are desperate for trusted navigators. Many will also look for that attribute in our next president, because they sense that deep changes are afoot. It is unsettling, and yet, there’s no swimming back. We are, indeed, far from the shallow now.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Thomas L. Friedman is the foreign affairs Op-Ed columnist. He joined the paper in 1981, and has won three Pulitzer Prizes. He is the author of seven books, including “From Beirut to Jerusalem,” which won the National Book Award.  @tomfriedman • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported bySteve Jobs wanted to put a ding in the universe. Today, Apple wants to ding your pocketbook. By Farhad ManjooOpinion ColumnistThe Steve Jobs Theater on Apple’s spendy new campus in Cupertino, Calif., is a majestic temple to pomp. An ethereal glass-and-marble cylinder set high on a serene hill, the venue feels like the architectural manifestation of the Apple co-founder’s famous “reality-distortion field.” It is an edifice meant to recall those moments when Mr. Jobs, smirking joyfully, would bound up to the stage, teasingly pull a black shroud off some new invention and instantly alter your picture of the future.And so it was meant to go once more last week, when Apple invited journalists and celebrities to an event billed as “a Think Different production.”Some different thinking did seem in order. Since becoming the first trillion-dollar corporation last summer, Apple has battled a souring assessment on Wall Street. The iPhone is the most profitable product in the history of business, but more than a decade after its debut, pretty much everyone on the planet who can afford one already has one, and many customers see little reason to upgrade.[Farhad Manjoo answered your questions about this column on Twitter.]So now, instead of selling better stuff to more people, Apple’s new plan is to sell more stuff to the same people. “Today is going to be a very different kind of event,” said Tim Cook, Apple’s chief executive, taking the stage.It was not. From start to finish, Apple’s affair was a brushed-aluminum homage to sameness — a parade of services that start-ups and big rivals had done earlier, polished with an Apple-y sheen of design and marketing. Among other offerings, Apple showed off a service for subscribing to news on your phone and a credit card, and it offered vague details about a still-in-development TV service involving Steven Spielberg and Oprah Winfrey (who are not exactly edgy or up-and-coming).None of these efforts look terrible. Some, like the news service, might be handy. Yet they are all so trifling and derivative. As the analyst Ben Thompson noted, Apple’s crush of me-too announcements falls far short of Mr. Jobs’s goal of putting “a ding in the universe.” As I watched Apple’s event, I felt the future shrink a little. In its gilded middle age, Apple is turning into something like a digital athleisure brand, stamping out countless upscale accessories for customers who love its one big thing, a company that has lost sight of the universe and is content merely to put a ding in your pocketbook.In an ordinary time, such an ordinary corporate vision might be fine. But these aren’t ordinary times, and Apple is no ordinary company. Here is a corporation with the resources of an empire, the mass devotion of a religion and the operational capacity of a war machine. Under Mr. Cook, Apple has cannily avoided every minefield in tech and politics over the past couple of years, winning a windfall from President Trump’s tax cut, avoiding getting burned in his trade war — all while enjoying the loyalty of every moneyed hipster and suburbanite on earth.Yet, all around Apple, the digital world is burning up. Indirectly, Apple’s devices are implicated in the rise of misinformation and distraction, the erosion of privacy and the breakdown of democracy. None of these grand problems is Apple’s fault, but given its centrality to the business, Apple has the capacity and wherewithal to mitigate them. But instead of rising to the moment by pushing a fundamentally new and safer vision of the future, Apple is shrinking from it.Consider privacy. Mr. Cook is one of the tech industry’s strongest champions of the sanctity of our private information, and Apple has pushed for more stringent privacy regulations — which is just about the least Apple could do. But what if it thought a little bigger? For example, it could directly take on Google and Facebook — the demons who rule our era of surveillance capitalism — by placing far more stringent restrictions on their culture of rampant invasion, or at least removing them from preferential places in the iPhone. (Google will pay Apple an estimated $12 billion in 2019 to act as the default search engine on the iPhone.)More than restricting the present, Apple could deploy its billions to build a better digital future. In particular, I wonder why Apple isn’t working feverishly to create new privacy-minded versions of social-media services the world needs.Take messaging, for starters. There is a strong moral case for Apple to turn iMessage, its encrypted messaging app, into an open standard available to anyone, even Android users, who currently lack many privacy-minded messaging apps that aren’t run by an ad company or aren’t friendly with the Chinese government.There might be a business case, too. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s founder, recently reoriented his company toward messaging. As Will Oremus noted in Slate, the move brings Facebook into direct competition with Apple. This presents an opportunity for Apple to turn a cold war into a hot one; Apple could swiftly undercut Mr. Zuckerberg’s ambition by freeing iMessage and bringing the gift of privacy to the non-Apple world.Here are some other big ideas: Apple could embark on a long-term project to create a privacy-minded search engine to rival Google’s. It could build an ad-free Instagram (its founders just left Facebook in frustration). It could create a YouTube that isn’t a haven for neo-Nazis. Some (or many) of these may be dumb ideas — ideas that would ruin Apple, or at the very least kneecap its short-run profits. But they are at least big ideas; they match in scope and daring what Apple was created to do. Let other companies handle streaming entertainment. To paraphrase a wise man: Does Mr. Cook want to sell prestige TV for the rest of his life, or does he want to change the world?The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here's our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Farhad Manjoo became an opinion columnist for The Times in 2018. Before that, he wrote the State of the Art column. He is the author of “True Enough: Learning to Live in a Post-Fact Society.”  @fmanjoo • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)A fight has broken out between TPG and Bill McGlashan, the senior executive caught up in a huge college bribery scandal, over how he left the $103 billion investment giant, Michael de la Merced of DealBook reports.Mr. McGlashan had initially been put on leave by TPG after being accused of collaborating with William Singer, who ran the college preparatory business at the center of the scandal. Prosecutors say that Mr. Singer advised the financier to claim that his son had learning disabilities, and that Mr. McGlashan paid $50,000 to Mr. Singer’s charity.TPG said it fired him for cause yesterday. “We believe the behavior described to be inexcusable and antithetical to the values of our entire organization,” the firm said in a statement.TPG told employees and partners that it learned about the accusations against Mr. McGlashan only after prosecutors unsealed their case, according to an internal note reviewed by DealBook.But Mr. McGlashan said that he had already resigned. “I am deeply sorry this very difficult situation may interfere with the work to which I have devoted my life,” he wrote in a note.Emails between Mr. McGlashan and top TPG executives, provided by his spokesman, appear to confirm that. Mr. McGlashan emailed his resignation at 1:02 p.m. yesterday, according to the correspondence. At 2:03 p.m., Jon Winkelried, one of TPG’s co-C.E.O.s, replied, acknowledging receipt of the resignation — but he also included a notice of termination.At 2:20 p.m., Mr. McGlashan responded, “I am perplexed by your attempt to terminate me because, as you acknowledged in your email, you had already received my resignation.”It’s unclear what is at stake financially for Mr. McGlashan in terms of his TPG severance. In his email, Mr. Winkelried wrote to Mr. McGlashan, “We will be in touch to advise you of the economic consequences of the termination of your employment.”A spokesman for TPG declined to comment on the emails.More: The man who tipped off authorities to the college admissions scandal was reportedly a financier who was being investigated in a securities fraud case. And here’s a reminder why paying bribes to get your child into college is a federal crime.Last week, Mark Zuckerberg announced that Facebook would pivot toward privacy. With two of the company’s top executives leaving just days later, it appears the change has had an immediate impact.The two executives — Chris Cox, Facebook’s chief product officer, who is widely regarded as the company’s No. 3, and Chris Daniels, the head of WhatsApp — announced yesterday that they were to leave the company. Their departure comes “after disagreements with Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive, over the social network’s future direction,” according to Mike Isaac of the NYT.“The differences stemmed from Mr. Zuckerberg’s asserting control over his company and its apps — Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger — by rolling out a plan to integrate the services into a single privacy-focused platform, according to six people involved in the situation,” he adds.Several executives at Facebook feared that knitting together the apps could take a toll on the popularity and growth of their individual products, according to Mr. Isaac. They were also reportedly worried that they could lose autonomy and power. Traces of those sentiments could be seen in a public statement issued by Mr. Cox.“Facebook has become Zuckerberg’s company now more than ever,” Shira Ovide of Bloomberg Opinion writes. “Whether that’s good for the company or for the company’s billions of users — we’ll see.”In the wake of two fatal crashes within five months that involved its 737 Max airplanes, the company is reeling.Boeing will suspend delivery of its 737 Max jets, it announced yesterday, but continue to produce them. It currently builds 52 aircraft a month, many of which are Max models, and entirely shutting down production would prove costly.But the policy may only last so long. Boeing’s production facility in Renton, Wash., has only limited capacity for storing the airplanes, according to the WSJ. Boeing may, however, be able to apply for special permits to fly the planes to other storage sites, according to Reuters.Meanwhile, big questions hang over the Max’s software. Pilots from Southwest Airlines and American Airlines requested software updates for some of the 737 Max’s automated systems last year, reports the NYT. They were promised updates within six weeks, one pilot said, but they have still not arrived. Similarities between the two recent crashes point to potential problems with the automated system that requires the update.And the U.S. Air Force has also lost trust in Boeing. In a case unrelated to the Max debacle, Air Force officials said that quality control issues with a new aerial refueling tanker caused it to suspend deliveries in February.British lawmakers yesterday voted to postpone the country’s departure from the E.U., but narrowly failed to wrest control of the Brexit process from Prime Minister Theresa May’s government, write Ellen Barry and Stephen Castle of the NYT.“Mrs. May fended off — by just two votes — a remarkable power grab by lawmakers frustrated at months of political deadlock that has left the country in limbo with just 15 days to go before its scheduled departure from the bloc. They later voted by 412 to 202 for a motion that means that Britain will almost certainly not leave the E.U. as scheduled on March 29.”“What remains unclear now is how long the delay will be. Mrs. May plans to hold a third vote on her unpopular plan for withdrawal, despite have suffered two staggering defeats on it already. If the prime minister should succeed in a third attempt, she would then request a short delay — no more than three months — from E.U. leaders.”“But the motion noted that should her plan go down to defeat once again, Mrs. May might have to ask European leaders for a much longer delay, with unknown consequences.”More: Brexit’s importance to the global economy may have been overstated.Tulane’s Corporate Law Institute, a conference held every spring in New Orleans, is where the mergers-and-acquisitions world gathers to talk shop. Usually, it’s about how good business is — but a sense of unease has intruded this year’s festivities, Michael de la Merced of DealBook reports.Bankers and lawyers should be celebrating. Last year’s $4.2 trillion in global announced deals was the third-best year ever, according to Citigroup. Nearly every industry enjoyed a rise in deal-making.And M. & A. should keep rolling on. Mark Shafir, the co-head of mergers and acquisitions at Citigroup, and others at the conference noted that takeover financing remains cheap, shareholders seem to support sensible deals and shareholder activists are continuing to push companies into transactions.But “there is no doubt that we are in a much less bullish environment for M. & A. than a year ago,” Mr. Shafir said. Among the pressures on deal-making:• There are fears about a potential recession, the ongoing trade wars and the persistent worry that the stock market will suffer like it did late last year.• Regulators are a big issue too, especially the concern that they could be used as political cudgels. One of the big topics at the conference was the growing importance of overseers like Cfius, the American government panel that reviews cross-border deals for national security concerns.• And then there’s the natural cycle of deal-making. Booms tend to be followed by big drops in volumes, and this cycle has gone on longer than most, Mr. Shafir said.The Connecticut Supreme Court cleared the way for a lawsuit against the companies that manufactured and sold the semiautomatic rifle used in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012, Rick Rojas and Kristin Hussey of the NYT report.The ruling allows a case, brought by victims’ families, to go around the immunity that Congress granted gun companies to shield them from litigation when their weapons are used in a crime. That leaves open the potential for Remington, which made the rifle used in the attack, to be held liable.Lawyers for the families argued that advertising campaigns for guns appeared to be “courting” troubled young men, like Adam Lanza, who carried out the Sandy Hook shooting. In a 4-3 ruling, justices “found that the sweeping federal protections did not prevent the families from bringing a lawsuit based on wrongful marketing claims,” Mr. Rojas and Ms. Hussey write.“The decision represents a significant development in the long-running battle between gun control advocates and the gun lobby,” Mr. Rojas and Ms. Hussey add. And it could chart a “possible legal road map for victims’ relatives and survivors from other mass shootings.”President Trump appears to have reeled in his claim on Wednesday of being “not in a rush whatsoever” to reach a trade deal with China.“We’ll have news on China. Probably one way or the other, we’re going to know over the next three to four weeks,” Mr. Trump told reporters yesterday, according to CNBC. He added that China had been “very responsible and very reasonable.”Such optimism may have been helped along by the news that China made “last-minute changes to a proposed foreign-investment law,” in an attempt to “address U.S. complaints about forced technology transfer,” according to the WSJ. Intellectual property concerns have been a major part of the trade dispute between America and China.But a final agreement is still some way off.  Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said yesterday that a proposed meeting between Mr. Trump and President Xi Jinping of China won’t happen this month because there is still more work to do. Sources tell Bloomberg it could happen in April.Elon Musk last night unveiled a new seven-seat compact sport-utility vehicle called the Model Y, Neal E. Boudette and Raymond Zhong of the NYT write:• “The Model Y will be available beginning next year, the company said, at prices ranging from $39,000 to $60,000, depending on the model, with a $2,500 deposit.”• “A long-range version will be able to drive 300 miles on a single charge, it said, while the $60,000 Performance model will have a top speed of 150 miles per hour.”• “‘It has the functionality of an S.U.V., but it will ride like a sports car,’ Mr. Musk said. ‘This thing will be really tight in corners.’”The unveiling “comes as Tesla confronts sales challenges,” Mr. Boudette and Mr. Zhong write. Sales of the Model S and Model X have been flattening, and its push to sell the Model 3 for $35,000 remains shrouded in uncertainty as the company works out how to cut costs to make that pricing possible.Andrew Weissmann, one of Robert Mueller’s top deputies, is said to be leaving the special counsel’s office.Lee Fixel, a partner at Tiger Global Management, is leaving the hedge fund in June.The meat-substitute start-up Impossible Foods hired Dennis Woodside, who was Dropbox’s C.O.O., as its president.Tesla named Vaibhav Taneja as its new chief accounting officer.Goldman Sachs plans to cut 65 jobs because of “economic” factors.Deals• Uber reportedly plans to publicly disclose its I.P.O. prospectus in April. (Reuters)• A federal judge has ordered a hearing on April 5 to consider the government’s settlement allowing CVS’s takeover of Aetna to proceed. (Reuters)• Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase said that European banks need to merge with cross-border rivals to compete globally. (Bloomberg)• SmileDirectClub, which sells at-home teeth-straightening kits, has reportedly picked JPMorgan to lead its I.P.O. this year. (Axios)Politics and policy• The Senate voted to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency over a border wall. Trump’s response was “VETO!” — which would be the first of his presidency. (NYT, @realDonaldTrump)• The House voted 420 to 0 to demand that Robert Mueller’s forthcoming report be released publicly. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, blocked a similar motion in the Senate. (NYT)• Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said that he “can’t speculate” on how the White House will respond to Democratic requests for President Trump’s tax returns. (Politico)Tech• Spotify’s C.E.O. warned that the streaming service would need to raise prices if Apple continues to take a 30 percent fee from companies who use its App Store. Apple said that its policies were fair and that Spotify was trying to bolster its financial results. (FT, NYT)• Facebook blamed a “server configuration change” for disruption to its services this week — a stark reminder that even powerful internet companies can still be crippled by human error. (NYT)• The E.U.’s competition commissioner is reportedly set to issue Google with another antitrust fine relating to its AdSense business next week. (FT)• Huawei’s C.F.O. wanted to quit her job just before she was arrested in Canada, according to the company’s founder. (Reuters)Best of the rest• Shares in G.E. jumped 2.8 percent on Thursday despite its warning of falling profits and a description of 2019 as a “reset” year. (WSJ)• Economists have lowered their forecasts for U.S. employment and economic growth in the first quarter. (WSJ)• China’s slowdown is spreading from factories to offices, and its second-highest official has promised corporate tax cuts and deregulation to ease the problem. (NYT)• The S.E.C. accused Volkswagen of undertaking a “massive fraud” over its diesel emissions scandal. (NYT)• How TV shows like “Succession” and “Billions” depict the lifestyle of the 1 percent. (NYT)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Britain proposed new online safety laws on Monday that would slap penalties on social media companies and technology firms if they fail to protect their users from harmful content.Easy access to damaging material particularly among young people has caused growing concern worldwide and came into the spotlight in Britain after the death of 14-year-old schoolgirl Molly Russell, which her parents said came after she had viewed online material on depression and suicide.Governments across the world are wrestling over how to better control content on social media platforms, often blamed for encouraging abuse, the spread of online pornography, and for influencing or manipulating voters.Global worries were recently stoked by the live streaming of the mass shooting at a mosque in New Zealand on one of Facebook's platforms, after which Australia said it would fine social media and web hosting companies and imprison executives if violent content is not removed ""expeditiously"". In a policy paper widely trailed in British media, the government said it would look into possibly using fines, blocking access to websites, and imposing liability on senior tech company management for failing to limit the distribution of harmful content. It would also set up a regulator to police the rules. TechUK, an industry trade group, said the paper was a significant step forward, but one which needed to be firmed up during its 12-week consultation. It said some aspects of the government's approach were too vague.""It is vital that the new framework is effective, proportionate and predictable,"" techUK said in a statement, adding not all concerns could be addressed through regulation.Facebook said it was looking forward to working with the government to ensure new regulations were effective, repeating its founder Mark Zuckerberg's line that regulations were needed to have a standard approach across platforms.COMPLEX ISSUES Rebecca Stimson, Facebook's head of UK public policy, said any new rules should strike a balance between protecting society and supporting innovation and free speech.""These are complex issues to get right and we look forward to working with the government and parliament to ensure new regulations are effective,"" Stimson said in a statement. Prime Minister Theresa May said that while the Internet could be brilliant at connecting people, it had not done enough to protect users, especially children and young people.""That is not good enough, and it is time to do things differently,"" May said in a statement. ""We have listened to campaigners and parents, and are putting a legal duty of care on internet companies to keep people safe."" The duty of care would make companies take more responsibility for the safety of users and tackle harm caused by content or activity on their services. The regulator, funded by industry in the medium term, will set clear safety standards.A committee of lawmakers has also demanded more is done to make political advertising and campaigning on social media more transparent.""It is vital that our electoral law is brought up to date as soon as possible, so that social media users know who is contacting them with political messages and why,"" said Conservative Damian Collins, who chairs the parliamentary committee for digital, culture, media and sport.""Should there be an early election, then emergency legislation should be introduced to achieve this."" (Reporting by Elizabeth Piper and Paul Sandle; Editing by David Holmes)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Jamie CondliffeHi. I’m Jamie Condliffe. Greetings from London. Here’s a look at the week’s tech news.There is little as fashionable in 2019 as the desire to curb Big Tech’s power. But knowing how far regulators should go in putting limits on Silicon Valley’s largest companies isn’t straightforward.At one extreme, there are calls to break up Big Tech.  Senator Elizabeth Warren grabbed headlines during the week when she called for just that. Ms. Warren, a Massachusetts Democrat, argued that companies shouldn’t offer their own products on platforms they controlled (like Apple’s selling apps on its App Store — something Spotify called out to European regulators on Wednesday). She also said she would roll back anticompetitive acquisitions, such as Facebook’s takeovers of Instagram and WhatsApp.Her pitch isn’t perfect, as The New York Times’s Kevin Roose pointed out — it’s too generic, misses easy wins and overlooks some big issues. But it is a bold, inspiring rally cry for Big Tech’s biggest critics.At the other end of the spectrum: tech companies. Ideally, the likes of Facebook and Google would love to perpetually operate in the lightly regulated world that helped them grow so quickly. But even Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, acknowledged that it was “inevitable that there will be some regulation” when he testified to the House Energy and Commerce Committee in April.There’s plenty of room between those extremes. Take, for example, a report published Wednesday by the British government, which called for an overhaul of antitrust policies for Big Tech. Its main proposal: that a new regulator identify companies with “strategic market status,” then block some activities — such as promoting their own products or services in search results over those belonging to competitors (hello, Google!).That, the report’s authors say, is a “more pro-business and pro-consumer solution” than “changing antitrust law to drive breakup” of businesses.So who’s right? Mr. Zuckerberg, at least when he says regulatory intervention is inevitable. There’s strong bipartisan support for such regulation. As for where a line should be drawn, that’s harder to say.Breaking up big companies isn’t easy: It’s expensive and takes a long time. And it doesn’t always go to plan. The last notable attempt to do so, when a judge ruled two decades ago that Microsoft be cleaved for having violated antitrust law, was overturned on appeal. So Ms. Warren could have her work cut out for her.But it may ultimately become a question of balancing ambition with need. Is it better to gamble on breaking up big companies, or guarantee that new rules curb some of their behavior? That’s something that lawmakers are going to have to wrestle with.When OpenAI was founded three years ago, it had a huge goal: to build artificial intelligence software that was as capable as the human brain. Its founders said that because it was a nonprofit with noble ambitions — it had $1 billion in funding from backers to pay its way — the public could trust it to build that so-called general artificial intelligence.Only, $1 billion doesn’t go far with goals like that. Huge computing resources and big salaries to attract talent burn through cash. Actually, it turns out, some profits might be useful.So, Wired reported, Open AI announced that it was changing its business model. To keep up with Facebook and Google, it created a OpenAI L.P., a company that can take money from investors that need to return a profit, like venture funds. That will make it easier to raise funds. Down the line, it might monetize some of the technology it develops. But the company decided to cap the returns that investors will see — to $100 for every dollar invested.One way to think of that figure is that OpenAI deems a 100-times return to be an ethical margin on building a general A.I. — enough to make it a feasible endeavor, but not so much as to tar it with the Big Tech brush. That reasoning clearly holds if you inhabit Silicon Valley. But it will be interesting to see if that profit cap is enough to put everyone at ease.On March 12, 1989, Tim Berners-Lee proposed an idea for linking digital files that his boss, Mike Sendall, called “vague but exciting.” It ultimately became the World Wide Web, and 30 years later we’re left with much to love — and hate — about its existence.At an event at London’s Science Museum on Tuesday to mark the web’s passage into its fourth decade, Mr. Berners-Lee was asked what it might look like in another 30 years. Here’s what he said:■ “It’s not, I think, for us to try and guess.”■ “Look at what’s happened over the last 30 years. The web has changed really dramatically, and a lot of that we couldn’t have predicted.”■ “What we can do is we can say what web we want.”■ “We want a web which is open. We want a web which is royalty-free. We want a web which is discrimination-free.”Worthy goals. And in an article he wrote this past week, Mr. Berners-Lee laid out steps that may be required to ensure they happen:■ “Governments must translate laws and regulations for the digital age. They must ensure markets remain competitive, innovative and open.”■ “Companies must do more to ensure their pursuit of short-term profit is not at the expense of human rights, democracy, scientific fact or public safety.”■ “Platforms and products must be designed with privacy, diversity and security in mind. “■ “And most important of all, citizens must hold companies and governments accountable.”Thirty years on, Mr. Sendall’s analysis might apply equally well to this proposal, too.Elon Musk really dislikes whistle-blowers. According to Businessweek, Mr. Musk, the Tesla chief executive, set out to destroy one employee who leaked details about raw materials wastage at the company.How does Google pay off executives accused of misconduct? Handsomely: Two shared a total of $135 million, according to details that emerged from a lawsuit during the week.Who will fund the next wave of tech start-ups? That’ll be the millionaires who are created when companies like Airbnb and Uber go public.You should care about TikTok. You might never use it, but it could reshape social media as you know it.Scientists dropped a smartphone into a blender. Because that, apparently, is the best way to work out how much cobalt, gold and other substances are in there.How to disappear (almost) completely: A Bitcoin evangelist offered 15 steps to going dark while staying online.Silicon Valley wants to build a monument. To Silicon Valley, obviously.Jamie Condliffe is editor of the DealBook newsletter. He also writes the weekly Bits newsletter. Follow him on Twitter here: @jme_c.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Nicholas ThompsonThis review was updated by the reviewer on Feb. 14 to reflect questions that arose after the review’s publication.MERCHANTS OF TRUTH The Business of News and the Fight for Facts By Jill Abramson 534 pp. Simon & Schuster. $30.In the early spring of 2014, A. G. Sulzberger, then an editor on the metro desk of The New York Times, handed Jill Abramson, the executive editor, a copy of the “innovation report.” Sulzberger and a team of colleagues had been working on the document for months, and they’d produced a vivisection of the paper. The Times had been slow to adapt to the emergence of new digital platforms; it had thumbed its nose at the internet and thus the future. The report was insightful, enlightened and tough. And it drove Abramson over the edge.She was upset because she didn’t think it credited her enough. Not a word of praise was offered for her having helped unite nytimes.com and the main newsroom. Worse, the report also encouraged The Times to loosen the barriers dividing the editorial and business sides. That, to her, was a road to perdition. “For me, it was an epic defeat,” she writes. She had wanted to be the executive editor who protected the newsroom from “crass commercialism”; she had wanted to avoid “metric charts influencing editors to promote stories according to their traffic.”She raged quietly and plotted.In May of that year, she made her move — and completely bungled it. She offered a managing editor position in charge of digital to Janine Gibson, an editor at The Guardian. Abramson then deceived her deputy, Dean Baquet, about the offer; when he found out the truth he was furious. A few days later, the publisher, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., A. G.’s father, fired Abramson. Baquet became executive editor.The episode, in more ways than one, set Abramson on a path that would produce “Merchants of Truth,” her book examining four news organizations trying to sail through the storm of digital transformation: BuzzFeed, Vice, The Washington Post and The Times. It’s partly a memoir and partly a work of investigative reporting. But it’s mostly an audit of an industry that has spent much of the past decade wetting its pants in fear of digital technology and then worrying about whether to go to the dry cleaners. And it’s a damn good read.The book tells the story in 13 chapters, three on each protagonist-company and one on Facebook. And it begins with BuzzFeed and its shrewd leader Jonah Peretti, the industry’s stalwart in figuring out how to profit off the ways modern technology taps into America’s id. The company he creates is a pioneer: at entertainment, at clickbait, at blurring lines between advertising and news, and at persuading other publishers to give him their precious data for almost nothing. He masters Facebook and quickly realizes one of the central lessons for modern media: New social platforms aren’t just distribution platforms for your old stuff — like your website or your newspapers. They are entirely new places, with new rules, for you to create new content.Meanwhile, as Peretti builds up an empire based on lists about basset hounds, he also creates a serious operation, BuzzFeed News, that churns out scoops and serious stories, including the first revelations about the role of fake news during the 2016 election. Peretti starts this money-losing wing, Abramson writes, as a way to create cachet for the money-winning side of his empire. The result is roughly similar to McDonald’s including slices of apples in Happy Meals.Next we turn to Vice, the hard-partying empire of cool that in 2017 turned its founder Shane Smith into a billionaire. Abramson is impressed by some of the journalism and perhaps even by some of Smith’s famous bluster. But she has a keen eye for the central irony at the core of Vice. The company created branded content for giant advertisers — and killed stories that criticized them — at the same time that it cultivated an image of rebellion. It was giving the Man the finger while simultaneously massaging his back.Abramson also has her eyes trained on what she sees as the company’s sexism: At one point, she quotes The Baffler’s description of Vice as a “vertically integrated rape joke.” And she pushes forward with the tale of an executive who cheats on his wife with one of his underlings, and then annoys that girlfriend by kissing another producer, who, the story goes, has to fend him off with an umbrella.Abramson’s critique of Vice is cutting. But Vice also turned the knives around. After the book came out, a Vice News correspondent noted multiple places where the author had included material nearly identical to what had previously appeared in other publications. Abramson apologized, and noted that she had pointed to the original sources in her endnotes, just not in the proper place. She also said that some passages should have been marked as direct quotes. Abramson’s book tour was suddenly consumed by conversations parsing the definition of plagiarism.The third setting is The Washington Post, where our story begins with the company’s earnest patriarch, Donald E. Graham — clumsily betting on local news even as the revenue attached to it dries up, and cannily betting on Mark Zuckerberg, who reneges on a handshake deal that would have given Graham a stake in Zuckerberg’s fledgling company. Abramson describes Zuckerberg lying on a bathroom floor and crying with guilt after the betrayal. In retrospect, it’s hard not to think that the young C.E.O. would have been better off keeping his word and choosing the sensible, moral journalist over the venture capitalists.Eventually Graham sells to one of the few men richer than Zuckerberg, and the paper begins its new life. An engraving in the newsroom appears after Jeff Bezos takes over with the mantra “What’s dangerous is not to evolve.” The message is exactly right for the industry, and it works. Bezos focuses on the product and engineering departments at The Post, making the pages fast to load and the stories easy to read across platforms. Editorially, it essentially takes the inverse model of BuzzFeed, serving a side of clickbait with a main course of serious journalism. Most everything works, and soon after Bezos arrives The Post has even more readers than The Times.Last of course is The New York Times, a story that benefits immensely from Abramson’s inside dirt, her genuine admissions about the errors she made and the obvious delight she takes in settling scores. In fact, nothing seems to please her as much as the moments when she can stick her knives into Dean Baquet. At one point, she tells the tale of a reporter named Eric Lichtblau. He was upset that a piece of his on Trump and Russia had been delayed, and then watered down. After The Times’s public editor weighed in, Baquet emailed Lichtblau: “I hope your colleagues rip you a new asshole.” Abramson then publishes another internal email from Baquet that she’s been given, this one complaining about Times reporters who had disclosed confidential conversations about the Lichtblau article. “I guess I’m disappointed that this ended up in print,” Baquet writes — a message that Abramson herself has now immortalized in print. It’s hard to know who has the moral high ground in this fight. But I do look forward to the Abramson sections whenever Baquet writes his own memoirs.As the book ends, the digital pioneers are in tatters. Vice has lost its swagger amid its sexual harassment scandals and its readership is in decline. Facebook has abandoned BuzzFeed, and much of the rest of the publishing industry. Peretti, who has always seemed to know where the media are headed before the rest of the media, seems temporarily as shellshocked as his peers.Meanwhile, the winners appear to be The Post and, even more so, The New York Times. Or as Abramson writes in the conclusion, “Of all the executives who had faced the ferocious waters of the digital revolution, Arthur Sulzberger Jr. had come closest to crossing to safety.” And the reason for his success comes from developing new products that depended on both the reporting and business sides, and following the metric charts that told the paper what stories to run.The book ends in a double irony. It’s titled “Merchants of Truth,” but much of the discussion after publication has been about whether the author’s sourcing was truthful. Secondly, Abramson was, indirectly at least, fired because of her resistance to the “innovation report.” And now she’s produced a marvelous book about exactly how prescient the darn thing was.Nicholas Thompson is the editor in chief of Wired magazine.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike Ives and Raymond ZhongHONG KONG — Singapore introduced draft legislation on Monday that it said would combat false or misleading information on the internet, but critics said the measure could be used as a cudgel against the government’s critics.The legislation, called the Protection From Online Falsehoods and Manipulation Bill, would require websites to run corrections alongside “online falsehoods” and would “cut off profits” of sites that spread misinformation, among other measures, according to the Ministry of Law.The bill is widely expected to become law in the coming weeks because it has support from Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s People’s Action Party, which has a supermajority in Parliament.“This bill targets falsehoods, not free speech,” the Ministry of Law said in a statement outlining the legislation. “It will help ensure online falsehoods do not drown out authentic speech and ideas, and undermine democratic processes and society.”But human rights advocates said they feared that the bill, which would give government ministers wide-ranging powers to fight misinformation that damaged the public interest, would grant the authorities too much leeway to decide what was true or false.The bill defines the public interest broadly, saying that ministers could intervene to prevent “a diminution of public confidence” in the government’s performance or the “incitement of feelings of enmity, hatred or ill will between different groups of persons,” among other threats.Kirsten Han, a Singaporean journalist and activist, described the legislation as “worryingly broad.”“The bill gives ministers so much power and discretion — any minister can direct individuals or websites to post corrections or take down content, or order access to content to be blocked, and these orders have to be complied with first, even if one is going to appeal the direction in the courts,” Ms. Han said in an email.The Ministry of Law said the bill did not apply to “opinions, criticisms, satire or parody,” only to falsehoods that threatened the public interest. According to a draft of the bill, punishments for some violations could include fines of up to about $44,000 and a prison term of up to six years for individuals, or fines of up to about $738,000 in “any other case.”Critics say the bill could put a wide range of online publishers in legal jeopardy in Singapore, including foreign media organizations.The “public interest” definitions are so vague, they add, that the legislation could be weaponized to target the government’s critics. Similar laws have been used by authoritarian governments around Southeast Asia.“You’re basically giving the autocrats another weapon to restrict speech, and speech is pretty restricted in the region already,” said Phil Robertson, the deputy Asia director at Human Rights Watch.Singapore holds elections, but there has never been a change of power as a result, and the government has long exerted control over the domestic news media through defamation suits.The advocacy group Reporters Without Borders ranks Singapore 151st of 180 countries in its Press Freedom Index, three places behind Russia.The draft legislation is hardly the first of its kind. Governments including those of Russia and of South Korea have recently put so-called false news in their cross hairs. Restrictions on online communication are also under discussion in Australia and New Zealand, as both countries try to address popular outrage over the massacre last month of 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand.In statements on Monday, press officers for Google and Twitter said the companies were still reviewing the bill.“Misinformation is a significant challenge, and one that we are working hard to address,” said Chris Brummitt, a Google spokesman. “We will study the bill to determine our next steps, and urge the government to allow for a full and transparent public consultation on the proposed legislation.”Simon Milner, Facebook’s vice president for public policy in the Asia-Pacific region, said in a statement that the social network supported regulation that “strikes the right balance between reducing harm while protecting people’s rights to meaningful speech.”“We are, however, concerned with aspects of the law that grant broad powers to the Singapore executive branch to compel us to remove content they deem to be false and proactively push a government notification to users,” he added.Companies like Facebook, Google and Twitter were once lauded for leading free speech and public discourse into a new age. Now, they are more likely to be blamed for providing an outlet for misinformation.As skepticism has risen, the platforms have taken measures to combat bogus or harmful information, with varying degrees of success. They have stepped up efforts to police content and enlisted the help of outside organizations to fact-check news articles and videos. They have tried to empower trusted publishers, such as traditional news agencies, to improve the overall quality of the information that users are shown.But controversies have continued to erupt. And even for the internet companies, it may now be easier to ask lawmakers to lay down guidelines for content. That way, the companies can deflect the blame if the policies cause dissatisfaction.In an op-ed over the weekend in The Washington Post, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, made a case for regulating his platform, calling for “a more active role for governments and regulators.”“We need a more standardized approach,” Mr. Zuckerberg wrote. “Regulation could set baselines for what’s prohibited and require companies to build systems for keeping harmful content to a bare minimum.”On Monday, Jeff Paine, the managing director of the Asia Internet Coalition — whose members include Amazon, Apple, Facebook, Google, Twitter and other technology firms — said the group supported Singapore’s efforts to protect harmony, social cohesion, and the integrity of the country’s institutions and political processes.But Mr. Paine said the group worried that the bill “gives the Singapore government full discretion over what is considered true or false.”“As the most far-reaching legislation of its kind to date, this level of overreach poses significant risks to freedom of expression and speech, and could have severe ramifications both in Singapore and around the world,” he said.Mr. Lee, the prime minister, previewed the false news bill in a speech last week at a gala dinner celebrating the 20th anniversary of the founding of Channel NewsAsia, a Singapore-based outlet.Mr. Lee told guests that the city-state was “particularly vulnerable” to false news because it was a multiracial, multiethnic society with “enduring fault lines that can be easily exploited.”Channel NewsAsia covered Mr. Lee’s remarks, but without mentioning that the government’s campaigns against misinformation have generated criticism from free speech advocates.Mike Ives reported from Hong Kong, and Raymond Zhong from Shanghai.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported by“Good lord, imagine getting owned this hard in the NYT comments section by your OWN SPOUSE.” By Michelle L. DozoisNew York Times readers leave thousands of comments on our site each day. Usually these comments don’t go viral. But on rare occasions, they get shared widely, charming a wider portion of the internet beyond the digital walls of The Times. On Thursday, two of our readers, Kathy Watson and her husband, Stu, of Hood River, Ore., joined that unofficial hall of fame. Stu, a retired newspaper editor and writer, left a comment on Mike Isaac’s story about how Mark Zuckerberg plans to change Facebook and other social platforms so that people have more private conversations with smaller groups: Kathy, also a former journalist and a semiretired chef, had a different perspective:A Times comment moderator spotted the exchange and highlighted both responses as “Times Picks,” making them more visible to other readers of the comments.Then one of our technology columnists, Kevin Roose, tweeted the exchange, adding his own commentary: “Good lord, imagine getting owned this hard in the NYT comments section by your OWN SPOUSE.” More than 10,000 people on Twitter liked or retweeted his tweet, and many others weighed in — either siding with Kathy or Stu, admitting that they could relate, or hypothesizing about the state of the couple’s marriage. “Oh my god these are friends of mine, and this is so on brand!” replied Melissa Tokstad. We spoke to Stu and Kathy by phone (at the same time) on Friday, to find out how they felt about their sudden Twitter fame and if they were even aware of it. They didn’t know they had been “causing a sensation” until we showed them the tweets, but they each good-naturedly described the situation as “funny.” (And they confirmed that Ms. Tokstad is indeed a friend.)Had Stu been aware of Kathy’s reply to his comment? Yes. “She loves to tell me about all the things she does to smack me down.” Is this the first time Kathy has replied to one of Stu’s comments? Yes. (Their shared New York Times account is under her email address, so she received a notification when his comment was posted.) “I saw his comment and thought, well that’s something,” she said and laughed (she used a different word than “something”). Does Kathy ever feel like Stu owes her a debt for keeping him up-to-date on Facebook happenings, as some implied on Twitter? No. They agreed that the flow of information goes both ways. “The truth is I’m an introvert, and he’s an extrovert,” Kathy said. “There’s a lot of give and take of information, and what’s important to us is staying connected.” Want more hall-of-fame comments? Check out the stories behind these favorites:“I’m icing my knee and I’m hard boiling some eggs”“She moved to the US and stole my husband!”“Generously buttered noodles, sprinkled with just a quarter cup of parsley for color and freshness”A note to readers who are not subscribers: This article from the Reader Center does not count toward your monthly free article limit.Follow the @ReaderCenter on Twitter for more coverage highlighting your perspectives and experiences and for insight into how we work.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy ReutersLONDON — Britain proposed new online safety laws on Monday that would slap penalties on social media companies and technology firms if they fail to protect users from harmful content.Easy access to damaging material, particularly among young people, has caused growing concern worldwide and came into the spotlight in Britain after the death of 14-year-old schoolgirl Molly Russell, which her parents said came after she had viewed online material on depression and suicide.Internet companies could face big fines, with bosses also held personally accountable, under rules to be policed by an independent regulator. In the most serious cases companies could also be banned from operating in Britain if they do not everything reasonably practical to eradicate harmful content.""We are putting a legal duty of care on these companies to keep users safe; and if they fail to do so, tough punishments will be imposed,"" Prime Minister Theresa May said in a video posted online. ""The era of social media firms regulating themselves is over.""Media Secretary Jeremy Wright said the proposed legislation - the toughest in the world - would apply to any company that allowed users to share or discover content or interact online, such as social media sites, discussion forums, messaging services and search engines.GLOBAL WORRIESGovernments globally are wrestling over how to better control content on social media platforms, often blamed for encouraging abuse, the spread of online pornography and for influencing or manipulating voters.Global worries were stoked by the live streaming in March of the mass shooting at a mosque in New Zealand on one of Facebook's platforms, after which Australia said it would fine social media and web-hosting companies and imprison executives if violent content is not removed ""expeditiously"". TechUK, an industry trade group, said the paper was a significant step forward, but one that needs to be firmed up during its 12-week consultation. It said that some aspects of the government's approach were too vague.""It is vital that the new framework is effective, proportionate and predictable,"" techUK said in a statement, adding that not all concerns could be addressed through regulation.Facebook said it was looking forward to working with the government to ensure new regulations were effective, repeating founder Mark Zuckerberg's line that regulations were needed to have a standard approach across platforms.COMPLEX ISSUES Rebecca Stimson, Facebook's head of UK public policy, said any new rules should strike a balance between protecting society and supporting innovation and free speech.""These are complex issues to get right and we look forward to working with the government and parliament to ensure new regulations are effective,"" Stimson said in a statement. Prime Minister May said that while the internet could be brilliant at connecting people, it had not done enough to protect users, especially children and young people.""We have listened to campaigners and parents, and are putting a legal duty of care on internet companies to keep people safe,"" she said in a statement. The duty of care would make companies take more responsibility for the safety of users and tackle harm caused by content or activity on their services. The regulator, funded by industry in the medium term, will set clear safety standards.A committee of lawmakers has also demanded that more is done to make political advertising and campaigning on social media more transparent.""It is vital that our electoral law is brought up to date as soon as possible, so that social media users know who is contacting them with political messages and why,"" said Damian Collins, a Conservative MP who chairs the parliamentary committee for digital, culture, media and sport.""Should there be an early election, then emergency legislation should be introduced to achieve this."" (Reporting by Elizabeth Piper and Paul Sandle; Editing by David Holmes and David Goodman)Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Katie RobertsonHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — Mark Zuckerberg’s “move fast and break things” mantra may no longer be Facebook’s modus operandi, but Silicon Valley’s demand for rapid growth is still strong. And the rise of the competitive landscape of artificial intelligence is only fueling it.Last year, venture capital investment in A.I. start-ups increased 72 percent from the previous year to a record $9.3 billion in the United States, according to a PricewaterhouseCoopers report.Reid Hoffman, the co-founder of LinkedIn and a partner at Greylock Partners, said at The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California that he looked very carefully at A.I. ventures to see how they were making new, interesting things possible and how he could bet on them early. He said current machine learning techniques, which are transforming fundamental industries, gave an amazing glimpse of the future.“My ideal investing is stuff that looks a little crazy now and in three years is obvious or five years is obvious,” Mr. Hoffman said.He voiced some concerns around how A.I. could transform the global landscape, likening it to the shift from the agricultural age to the industrial age.“You’ll see enormous changes from where the bulk of people find jobs and employment,” he said. “The first worry is what does that transition look like. That intervening transition is super painful.”And how ethically the technology will be developed will tie into who wins the race to build it. Some groups will care about human impact, others will not, he said.Mr. Hoffman recently released the book “Blitzscaling: The Lightning-Fast Path to Building Massively Valuable Companies,” which details his theory that the rapid growth of a company — above almost all else — is what leads to its success.And this attitude, he said, is why Silicon Valley continues to produce impressive tech companies.“Everywhere in the world recognizes that technology is super important, there’s super great talent everywhere,” Mr. Hoffman said.“It’s this understanding of the network of learning and this playbook of the first to scale is what wins the competitive race.”A recent report from KPMG noted there was a record $254 billion of venture capital invested around the world in 2018, up from about $174 billion the previous year.Jeffrey F. Rayport, a senior lecturer at Harvard Business School who teaches an M.B.A. course on scaling tech ventures, said founders were often at the mercy of intense demands and the “financing treadmill” from venture capitalists — a funding model that some Silicon Valley founders are starting to reject.“The world has become very sophisticated about how to scale technology ventures, and with that sophistication has come, in a sense, a very professional and very aggressive set of investors,” Mr. Rayport said.“The flip side of that is that once you put a venture on a path of successive financing rounds that are betting on exponential growth, then the pressure is enormous to deliver, whether or not it makes sense for the venture.”Young founders who “can’t scale into the opportunity they created” are a common occurrence. “They’ve got to figure out how to do 20 years of learning and development as leaders, as managers, as people, in a space of maybe two years,” Mr. Rayport said.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)That was fast: On their second day of trading yesterday, shares in Lyft fell 12 percent, to $69.01, below their I.P.O. price. That darkens the outlook for the ride-hailing company, and for other tech unicorns planning to go public.Lyft crashed below its I.P.O. price quickly. Other tech companies with big losses, like Groupon, Twitter and Snap, have suffered the same fate, but it took a while — almost two weeks, for Groupon.Investors may be worried about Lyft’s losses. The company lost nearly $1 billion last year. And it can’t say when it will turn a profit, as it plans to invest heavily in technology like autonomous vehicles.Other I.P.O. candidates have reason to worry, too. Lyft’s troubles suggest that no one — not underwriters nor investors — knows how to value a company with such sharp growth and steep losses. “The ones following in the wake of Lyft will be priced more reasonably,” Kathleen Smith of Renaissance Capital said.Lyft should expect more pain. Short-sellers, who profit when a company’s stock price goes down, are expected to bet against it within days.Facebook still hasn’t solved its many problems with hosting false or misleading information, but Mark Zuckerberg says that it may start a dedicated news service.• In India, Facebook is struggling to cope with disinformation and hate speech circulating ahead of elections. When local news outlets have raced to post “exclusive” information about hostilities between India and Pakistan, for instance, much of it has been false.• Singapore has stopped waiting for Facebook to clamp down on false information and introduced draft legislation that would, among other things, require websites to run corrections alongside “online falsehoods” and would “cut off profits” of sites that spread it.Against that backdrop, Mr. Zuckerberg is pitching the idea of a dedicated news service on Facebook. In an interview with Mathias Döpfner, the C.E.O. of the German publisher Axel Springer, he explained how a dedicated tab on the social network could feature content from third-party publishers — which Facebook might pay for.“It’s important to me that we help people get trustworthy news and find solutions that help journalists around the world do their important work,” Mr. Zuckerberg said.The plane maker has pushed back the timeline for updating the anti-stall software under suspicion in two recent fatal crashes, David Gelles of the NYT reports.Boeing was hoping to submit a fix to the Federal Aviation Administration this week.  But employees who reviewed the update appear to have raised concerns about it, Mr. Gelles reports. It isn’t clear what their issues were.“Time is needed for additional work by Boeing as the result of an ongoing review of the 737 Max Flight Control System to ensure that Boeing has identified and appropriately addressed all pertinent issues,” the F.A.A. said in a statement yesterday.Meanwhile, Boeing’s problems are growing. “Some airlines are demanding that Boeing compensate them for lost revenues as they cancel flights and their planes sit idle. At least one airline is seeking to cancel its deal to buy more Max jets,” Mr. Gelles writes.And lawyers are preparing for battle. Families in the Ethiopian Airlines crash are likely to sue Boeing and the carrier.More: After the crash of a Lion Air flight last year, Boeing reportedly suggested foreign pilots were at fault. And Singapore Airlines grounded two Boeing 787-10s after inspections revealed premature engine deterioration.A year ago several big names in the world of finance were making grand plans to enter the cryptocurrency markets. Most of those efforts are now faltering, Nathaniel Popper of the NYT reports.• “Goldman Sachs said it was opening a Bitcoin trading operation to serve clients. A year later, customer interest has been weak, and the bank has not received regulatory approval to buy and hold actual Bitcoins for customers.”• “The parent company of the New York Stock Exchange has been forced to delay the opening of the cryptocurrency exchange it announced last year, and there is still no clear sign of when it will get the approval needed from regulators.”• “The Chicago Board Options Exchange said last month that it was going to stop offering a Bitcoin trading contract that it started with great fanfare in late 2017.”“The smart money knows that crypto is not ready,” Ciaran Murray, a cryptocurrency trader in London, told Mr. Popper.Enthusiasts had hoped Wall Street would legitimize cryptocurrencies and encourage more traditional investors to buy them. But the second-guessing at big financial institutions shows how hard it is to take a technology “from the fringes of the internet into the mainstream financial world,” Mr. Popper writes.Britain’s Parliament reached no majority yesterday on proposals for the country’s exit from the E.U., worsening the disarray over Brexit less than two weeks before the deadline to depart, Stephen Castle of the NYT reports.“The plan that lost most narrowly was for a customs union that would keep Britain in the same tariff system as the rest of the European Union countries, tying the country closely to the bloc. It failed 276-273.”“The failure to agree on any of them means Britain is facing the deadline with nothing resolved and all the options remaining on the table,” Mr. Castle writes. “It also underscores the stalemate in Parliament where different factions appear unable to compromise enough to swing behind any one vision for Brexit.”“Something will have to give soon, however. By April 10, Mrs. May needs to get a Brexit agreement through Parliament or ask the leaders of the European Union for a longer delay if she wants to avoid leaving without a deal,” Mr. Castle adds. A last-resort option: a general election.Mrs. May’s cabinet will hold a five-hour meeting today, which the FT says “is likely to be a brutal and potentially decisive meeting to discuss what route, if any, can be charted.” Parliament is expected to debate Brexit again tomorrow, and may attempt to wrest control from Mrs. May once more.More: Brexit hasn’t officially happened, but it has already cooled investment and damaged the nation’s reputation as a haven for commerce. And banks haven’t moved many people in the run-up to the departure from the E.U. — yet. As the M.&A. boom declines, top investment bankers are scrounging around for much smaller transactions than they once handled, Liz Hoffman of the WSJ reports.• “ ‘Every 10 years or so, the big banks get the idea to move in,’ said Mark Brady, head of mergers and acquisitions at William Blair & Co., a Chicago-based firm where the average deal is $400 million. ‘As soon as there’s a down-cycle, they disappear.’ ”• JPMorgan Chase bankers, who helped arrange the $74 billion sale of Celgene, sought business from Cianna, a medical company with $40 million in revenue. “I kept saying, tell me again why you’re interested in this deal?” Cianna’s then-C.E.O. told the WSJ.• And “a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. partner cold-called his way onto a $162 million stock-offering deal for a Texas-based chemicals company.”• There’s an advantage to smaller deals, Ms. Hoffman writes: “While fees in the middle market are smaller, they are typically split between fewer banks. Deals also close faster and require fewer staff than complex, trans-Atlantic takeovers.”Trump administration officials worry that the world’s wireless networks will be dominated by Huawei, the Chinese telecom company they have tried to block as a security threat, Ellen Nakashima and Souad Mekhennet of the WaPo report.• “Officials have begun discussing ways to use encryption, segmented network components and stronger standards to protect key systems.”• “Officials have not let up on their campaign to urge other countries to block Huawei — a firm with close ties to the Chinese government — from their burgeoning 5G networks, which will power everything from self-driving cars to military operations.”• “But they are cognizant that many countries already use low-cost Huawei equipment and will probably continue to rely on it as they transition to the next generation of mobile telecommunications.”• “ ‘You have to presume a dirty network,’ Sue Gordon, a senior U.S. intelligence official, said recently. ‘That’s what we’re going to have to presume about the world.’ ”Michael Cerda, the head of product for Goldman Sachs’s consumer division, Marcus, has reportedly quit.Deals• Paul Jacobs, the former chairman of Qualcomm, has finally given up his quest to buy his old employer. (WSJ)• Kellogg agreed to sell its Keebler and Famous Amos cookie brands to Ferrero for $1.3 billion. (CNBC)• Andreessen Horowitz is celebrating after having backed Lyft, PagerDuty and other unicorns now set to go public in big I.P.O.s. (FT)• Tencent plans to sell $5 billion in bonds to raise money and fight new rivals. (FT)• Toast, which makes restaurant management software, has raised $250 million at a $2.7 billion valuation from investors like TCV and Tiger Global Management. (TechCrunch)Politics and policy• President Trump tweeted that Republicans wouldn’t try to replace the Affordable Care Act until after 2020. (Axios)• The Trump administration is moving to limit claims of employment-law violations by franchisees and contractors. (NYT)• A federal judge sealed the divorce records of Stephen Moore, President Trump’s pick for the Fed, after the Guardian posted them online. (NYT, Guardian)• A White House whistle-blower has told lawmakers that the Trump administration gave at least 25 individuals security clearances despite objections from staffers. (NYT)• Senator Kamala Harris’s campaign said it raised $12 million in the first quarter, vaulting her into the upper tier of 2020 Democratic candidates. (NYT)Trade• The E.U. is dragging its heels over trade discussions with the U.S., which could anger President Trump. (Bloomberg)Tech• Who’s fighting whom in video streaming? This Venn diagram explains. (WSJ)• The Chinese tech giant Tencent has been quietly testing a game-streaming platform. (CNBC)• Researchers say small stickers on the road could trick Tesla’s Autopilot software into steering into oncoming traffic. (Ars Technica)• A group of former American government hackers reportedly helped the U.A.E. spy on prominent media figures. (Reuters)• Google’s new A.I. ethics council hasn’t impressed employees. (MIT Technology Review)Best of the rest• While investigating Carlos Ghosn, the Renault-Nissan alliance reportedly discovered that it had three more jets than it previously knew. (FT)• Mr. Ghosn’s lawyers asked that his trial be held separately from that of a former colleague, Greg Kelly. (Reuters)• Dubai’s rulers are worried that the emirate’s building boom is ending. (FT)• A peek into Saudi Aramco’s books showed it to be vastly profitable, but investors now wonder: What are its sustainability plans? (FT)• A British government report suggests breaking up the country’s four big accounting firms. (FT)• Manufacturing activity in the U.S. and China has picked up, easing fears about a coming global recession. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThankfully, monopoly power is shaping up as a central issue in the 2020 campaign.By Tim WuMr. Wu is a law professor who specializes in antitrust.Senator Elizabeth Warren’s announcement on Friday of a plan to break up major tech monopolies like Facebook and Google was critically important — not just as a policy proposal, but also as a sign of the return of antitrust to politics.In the United States, economic policy is ostensibly a matter of democratic governance, but for too long antitrust has been viewed as a technocratic matter best left to experts. This is a mistake: Excessive corporate size and power can be linked to many voter concerns, including stagnant wages, the invasion of privacy, the rise of fake news, the demise of the middle class and an unresponsive democracy.Antitrust is especially salient today because we witness the tremendous power of the tech monopolies firsthand, in our daily lives. Nearly everyone uses Facebook, Google, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft, and nearly everyone can see how smaller businesses have been hurt by their dominance. Nearly everyone has an opinion about whether they are too powerful, whether they know too much, whether they ought to be admired or feared.Add to these concerns the dangers of agricultural monopolies, rising costs for cable and broadband, and anticompetitive drug pricing, and it is clear that for Ms. Warren and other presidential hopefuls in the Democratic field, the problem of monopoly power should be a central issue — perhaps the central issue — in the 2020 campaign.Though every Democratic candidate is against President Trump and in favor of working Americans, antitrust is an issue over which the candidates have real disagreement. There are stark differences between, say, Senator Bernie Sanders’s calls to “break them up” (usually a reference to banks), and former Vice President Joe Biden’s “cooperative” approach. Mr. Biden (still undeclared), has taken the position that big corporations should not be “singled out” and that their chief executives can be persuaded to shoulder their responsibilities toward workers and communities. (In the late 1970s, Mr. Biden resisted efforts to strengthen the antitrust laws, though his views may have changed as the law has grown weaker.)Antitrust law is not an instrument of socialism or of unfettered capitalism; it seeks to protect markets from abuse by their participants. Ms. Warren and Senator Amy Klobuchar seem to have the deepest understanding of this. Ms. Klobuchar is not as aggressive on the issue as Ms. Warren, but she has cast herself as an antitrust reformer, introducing thoughtful new laws for merger reform. Senator Cory Booker, for his part, has over the last year staked out a trustbusting position centered on labor markets, with particular emphasis on the worrisome effects of corporate consolidation on workers and their salaries.The largest question mark among the major candidates is Senator Kamala Harris of California, who represents the state where the largest tech monopolies are headquartered. She was tough in her questioning of Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, during congressional hearings last year, but she has been silent on the questions raised by tech monopolies.Ms. Harris attracted some attention last month when she declined to register opposition to the proposed merger of the wireless carriers Sprint and T-Mobile — in stark contrast to the rest of the senators running for president. It may be that she is relatively open to approving mergers; it is also possible that her positions are just undeveloped.The variety of antitrust positions in the emerging Democratic field means that it will no longer be enough for a candidate to mutter a few platitudes about big corporations and let the party’s technocrats decide what the nation’s approach to monopoly power ought to be. Such questions of economic policy affect us all and therefore should sit at the core of a majoritarian democratic process.Indeed, they once did: Today’s interest in excessive corporate power recalls a time — 1912, to be exact — when antitrust policy was the central economic issue in the presidential race. Then, as now, the nation faced consolidated industries, widespread inequality and political radicalization. And then, as now, the public deserved the opportunity to decide what to do about that.Tim Wu (@superwuster) is a law professor at Columbia, a contributing opinion writer and the author, most recently, of “The Curse of Bigness: Antitrust in the New Gilded Age.”The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Pam BelluckStanford University has cleared Stephen Quake, a bioengineering professor, of any wrongdoing in his interactions with a Chinese researcher who roiled the scientific world by creating the first gene-edited babies.“In evaluating evidence and witness statements, we found that Quake observed proper scientific protocol,” said a letter from the university to Dr. Quake, obtained by The New York Times on Tuesday.Referring to the Chinese scientist, He Jiankui, by his nickname, JK, the letter said that Stanford’s investigators concluded that Dr. Quake did not “directly participate in any way in JK’s research, including in the conception or performance of the work.”In fact, the letter said, Dr. Quake discouraged Dr. He from pursuing the project and urged him to follow proper scientific practices after he insisted on going ahead.Dr. Quake was one of three professors whose interactions with Dr. He were being reviewed by Stanford, and his association with Dr. He was the most extensive. The other two — Dr. Matthew Porteus, a genetics researcher, and Dr. William Hurlbut, an ethicist — had previously said they strongly discouraged Dr. He when he told them of his idea to create genetically engineered babies.In a statement Tuesday, Stanford, which has never publicly named the professors under review, said that it had exonerated all of them.“Based on all of the available information, the reviewers found that the Stanford researchers were not participants in Dr. He’s research regarding genome editing of human embryos for intended implantation and birth, and that they had no research, financial or organizational ties to this research,” the statement said. “The review found that the Stanford researchers expressed serious concerns to Dr. He about his work.”Since Dr. He announced the birth of the gene-edited twins in November, the research community has been debating what actions scientists should take if they know about ethically questionable experiments. Global institutions, including the World Health Organization, are working to establish an international reporting and monitoring system.Dr. Quake’s interactions with Dr. He were detailed in a recent New York Times article, which included excerpts from emails that Dr. Quake showed to a Times reporter.The emails show that Dr. He, 35, who had been a postdoctoral student in Dr. Quake’s lab in 2011, kept Dr. Quake apprised of major steps, including the implantation of the edited embryos in the woman’s womb and the birth of the twins months later. They show that Dr. Quake suggested that Dr. He obtain ethical approval from Chinese institutions and submit the project’s data for vetting by peer-reviewed journals.The emails contain encouraging expressions like “Wow, that’s quite an achievement!” But the correspondence makes it clear that Dr. Quake did not participate in the work itself.On Tuesday, Dr. Quake, who turned 50 this week, said: “I’m pleased this inquiry is over and its conclusion is consistent with what I knew to be true: that I had urged Dr. He not to pursue this path and when it became clear he wouldn’t listen to me, to adhere to high scientific and ethical standards in his research.”Dr. Quake, an entrepreneur whose inventions include blood tests to detect Down syndrome in pregnancy and to avoid organ transplant rejection, is also co-president of an institute funded by the Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan.The investigation of Dr. Quake began after the president of Dr. He’s Chinese university wrote letters alleging that Dr. Quake had helped with the project.The letters, obtained by The Times, claimed that “Prof. Stephen Quake provided instructions to the preparation and implementation of the experiment, the publication of papers, the promotion and news release, and the strategies to react after the news release.”The Chinese government, in a preliminary report in January, concluded that Dr. He forged ethical review documents and engaged in actions that “seriously violated ethics, scientific research integrity and relevant state regulations.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressWASHINGTON — One of the European officials in charge of a tough data privacy law says legislation now poised to emerge in the U.S. won't be a copy of the EU's regime and will reflect American cultural values.Vera Jourova, the European Union's consumer commissioner, also said Friday she assured U.S. tech industry executives during a visit to Washington that the EU's sweeping ""privacy shield"" law will be ""future-proof"" and won't hinder innovations such as the development of artificial intelligence.Jourova met with Trump administration officials and U.S. lawmakers, making the case that now that Europe has acted, the U.S. must move to protect the privacy of consumers' data.""I would like to see the law in the United States as soon as possible,"" she told reporters.She is modestly optimistic that legislation will be enacted by Congress and signed into law, Jourova said.Her visit came as momentum is building in Washington for a national privacy law that could sharply rein in the ability of the largest tech companies to collect and make money from people's personal data. A federal law, the first of its kind in the U.S., could allow people to see or prohibit the use of their data. Companies would need permission to release such information.At the same time, technology is galloping ahead. At a White House event Friday, President Donald Trump said the race to build 5G high-speed wireless networks is one the U.S. must win. The Federal Communications Commission said it will hold a massive auction to bolster 5G service, the next generation of mobile networks, with the government planning to spend $20 billion to expand broadband access in rural areas. The U.S. is jockeying for position with China over 5G.Behind the drive for a national privacy law is rising concern over the compromise of private data held by Facebook, Google and other tech giants that have reaped riches by aggregating consumer information.Jourova had discussions with key senators working on privacy legislation, tech industry executives and the head of the Federal Trade Commission, Joseph Simons.""We are fully at the disposal of the American legislators to give this feedback and experience"" with the 10-month-old EU privacy law, she said Friday. ""I fully recognize that the federal law, if there will be one, will not be copy-and-paste. This is another culture, another society; the citizens may want to see different solutions. It's fully in the hands of the American legislators.""Jourova said questions came from senators and industry officials regarding the impact of the EU law on small and startup businesses, on citizens' ability to exercise their new privacy rights and on whether it will hinder innovation.""Our answer to this is (the EU law) tries to be future-proof and cover the new situations in the world of technologies which consume citizens' data,"" she said. ""We have the principle that the data can be used for research and business and artificial intelligence"" after they are made anonymous.Earlier this week, after discussions with European officials, Facebook changed the fine print in its terms of service to clearly explain to users that it makes money by using their data. The social media giant modified its terms and conditions to better inform users what they are signing up for, clearly explaining how it uses the data it collects on users to develop profiling activities and target advertising to score profits.The EU regulators stepped up scrutiny of Facebook's terms after the Cambridge Analytica privacy scandal, in which data on 87 million Facebook users was allegedly improperly harvested. The regulators also want tech companies to bring their terms in line with European consumer law.Asked for her assessment of Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg's recent call for tighter regulations to protect consumer data, Jourova said Friday that ""whatever strong declarations, whatever commitments and declarations, ... we need to see real action.""""This can only be done by checking whether they are investigating the complaints of the people, following the cases, and this is the job of the data-protection authorities in the EU,"" she said.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Want to get California Today by email? Here’s the sign-up.)A formerly homeless veteran ekes out just enough to live by picking through the trash of billionaires like Mark Zuckerberg on the streets of San Francisco and selling the designer jeans and high-end housewares he finds.U.S.C. students jet to Bali for spring break, while some of their classmates work overnight shifts to pay for books.Recently, my colleagues Thomas Fuller and Jennifer Medina wrote articles about the symptoms of California’s vast and growing economic inequality.That’s a major, vexing topic in the state, though hardly unexplored.Still, they seemed to strike a particular chord with readers — hundreds of whom emailed, tweeted and commented on each.Many applauded Jake Orta, the Air Force veteran and Texas native whom Thomas followed around the rain-slicked streets of the Mission this winter.“Hats off to Mr. Orta,” one commenter, hotGumption, wrote. “He’s entrepreneurial, a survivor and — as I see it — a distant cousin to the trend called ‘shabby chic’ where canny designers take what used to be yard sale junk and make millions by renaming it.”Others were outraged by his story, not because they saw his actions as wrong, but because of what his lifestyle signified.“The profile speaks to the utter absence of care America provides its veterans,” Mike Frank wrote. “Wake up call to Mr. Zuckerberg: look out your front window, use your vast wealth and make Facebook a morally conscious leader with a commitment to the veterans who have served us and will continue to do so.”And some thought the story focused too much on the extremes.“Characterizing our country as a Dickensian Tale of Two Cities is a lot more fun than realizing it’s instead a Tale of Three Cities, with the overwhelming majority doing just fine,” wrote another commenter, bigoil.[Read the full story here.]More readers shared their experiences of being somewhere in the middle of the income spectrum at elite universities — and how the exposure to different ways of life was itself an education.“At Stanford, my freshman roommate got $100 for each A she earned. I had to earn spending money by serving food in the dining halls,” wrote Alice, whose son is now a freshman at U.S.C. “I realized being rich did not necessarily mean one was a snob. She realized she had grown up in a bubble. I encourage my son to embrace both the haves and the have-nots at S.C.”Others said that the piece depicted experiences similar to their own.“I got a great education at U.S.C. and was not resentful, but the idea of any sort of ‘even playing field’ at the school is simply untrue, and the gap in money and social stature was nearly impossible to close,” wrote Christine, who said she was the first person in her working-class family to attend college.Still others said inequality is what you make of it.“Wealthy people and celebrities send their kids here, they always have, but this narrative only works to devalue the education that many middle and lower middle class students care deeply about,” wrote Virginia, who said she’s a current U.S.C. undergrad. “I don’t care about the Corvette, as long as it doesn’t hit me when I’m jaywalking to class.”[Read the full story here.](We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Destined to Burn: Which communities could be the next Paradise? An analysis found that more than 350,000 Californians live in communities built almost entirely in “very high fire severity zones.” [The Sacramento Bee]• “It is lawyer 101: You do not steal your client’s money.” In a drastic escalation of the criminal case against Michael Avenatti, federal prosecutors in California announced that he had been indicted on three dozen charges. If convicted, he could face up to 333 years in prison. [The New York Times]• Tax Day is Monday and it’s the first time Californians are filing under the Trump administration’s new tax law. Some are feeling a new squeeze: “The federal government really jacked us.” [CALmatters]• And if you still haven’t filed your taxes, here’s some last-minute advice. [The New York Times]• Sacramento teachers talk about why they walked out on Thursday. “It’s one broken promise after another.” [The Sacramento Bee]• Uber’s initial public offering could value the ride-hailing giant at $100 billion. But in a filing, the company revealed it’s losing $1.8 billion a year. [The New York Times]• A fight over where to build a homeless Navigation Center in San Francisco is giving way to a proposal to build one in every district — thus eliminating supervisors’ excuses about why they shouldn’t be built in their districts. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• “The Marathon continues.” Thousands gathered at Staples Center and on the streets of L.A. to remember and celebrate the life of Nipsey Hussle. [The New York Times]• And a Times journalist who went to the same high school as the rapper reflects: “Nipsey unapologetically believed in Los Angeles and represented it at a time when so many of the people and landmarks that we grew up with have changed or have closed down.” [The New York Times]• In Willows, hobbyists hack cars — and make them self-race. [The New York Times]• Almost a half a century ago, Bruce Lee pitched a TV show about life in San Francisco’s Chinatown in the late 1800s. He was told no; the show wasn’t viable with an Asian lead. Now, his daughter, Shannon Lee, and Justin Lin are bringing the vision to life with “Warrior.” [Newsweek]Tejal Rao is back in the West after winning a Vilcek Prize for Creative Promise. She shared her moving acceptance speech notes on Twitter, and now she’s sent us this recommendation, for a feast fit for a celebration:This week, my team at the food desk collaborated, rounding up our favorite cookbooks of the season. I wrote about “My Mexico City Kitchen, Recipes and Convictions,” by the chef Gabriela Cámara, known for her Mexico City restaurant Contramar and Cala in San Francisco.Why? Because on a recent Sunday I invited friends over and cooked a whole feast from the book. An equal parts dramatic and delicious butterflied grilled snapper. The fish was half red and half green: One side stained with a fiery paste of cascabel, ancho and guajillo chiles, the other side mellow with parsley and garlic.But first there were tostadas piled with creme fraiche and Cámara‘s green chorizo, and a big salad coated with her pepita dressing. For dessert, I made her kumquat chocoflan, and the book’s spot on my stack of favorites was sealed.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" The Snap chief said that he was “impressed” by Europe’s moves, and that there was still time to “course-correct” in the United States.At The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California, Evan Spiegel, Snapchat’s founder, said he was impressed with the privacy regulations enacted in Europe.CreditCreditMike Cohen for The New York TimesSupported byBy Katie RobertsonHALF MOON BAY, Calif. — With the continued pressure to regulate Silicon Valley, many wonder when, and how, the United States will act.Sam Altman, president of the start-up incubator Y Combinator, said the onus was on the government.“The idea that these companies who are not accountable to us or elected by us should get to decide sort of the new safeguards of society, that seems like the wrong way to do it,” Mr. Altman said last week at The New York Times’s New Work Summit in California. “I think we should let our — flawed as they may be — democratically elected and enforced institutions update the rules for the world.”He suggested restrictions around how user-generated content was amplified or distributed, as well as the classifications of hate speech or fake news.The United States has lagged behind its peers and has provided little regulation of the industry that is one of its biggest economic drivers.In January, leaders at the World Economic Forum in Davos pushed for more global oversight to limit the power of big tech. Prime Minister Shinzo Abe of Japan announced plans to use his country’s leadership of the Group of 20 nations this year to emphasize data governance.America’s own tech chiefs, including the Apple chief executive Tim Cook and executives from Facebook, Google and Microsoft, have lobbied for a comprehensive federal privacy law. Europe has enacted the world’s toughest rules on digital privacy with a sweeping law known as the General Data Protection Regulation.In a recent capitulation to the growing calls for a watchdog, the Federal Trade Commission announced Tuesday that it would create a task force to scrutinize tech giants. The F.T.C. is also said to be considering a multibillion-dollar fine for Facebook over privacy violations.Facebook’s very public reckoning recently has hastened the push for more regulation. The company is accused of, among other things, compromising privacy, harvesting user data, and allowing misinformation, propaganda and hate speech to spread, including during the 2016 presidential election. Also, the Times reported that its leaders covered up problems and targeted critics, enlisting an opposition-research firm to discredit naysayers.Mr. Altman defended Facebook’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, and its chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, saying the company was rapidly improving its practices. “Mark and Sheryl are extremely thoughtful people that have built one of the most important companies in human history. And I think they are listening,” Mr. Altman said.While Facebook and Twitter have taken plenty of hits for their approach to user data and social media, Snapchat, the disappearing-message app made by Snap Inc., has largely escaped the cascading criticism.Evan Spiegel, its founder, said Snapchat’s approach was different from that of its contemporaries, who are trying to police content.“We believe that just a small percentage of the content out there is really great content,” he said. “And so by focusing on that small amount of content and just not allowing really, you know, that longer tail of content creators to distribute content widely on our platform, we ultimately end up with a better content experience for our customers.”Mr. Spiegel linked the current climate for technology companies to the thinking in the Clinton administration around innovation at the beginning of the internet — an attitude of “we want people to mess around with it and to create wild new things, and because of that we don’t really think regulation is the right way to go.”“I think our society is now starting to understand how the internet works in a way that maybe they didn’t 20 years ago,” he said.But, Mr. Spiegel acknowledged, there was plenty of room to “course-correct.” He said he was “really impressed” with Europe’s moves, which he believed would inspire the next wave of privacy regulation.“I’ve found the European Commission to be very well-reasoned and thoughtful in their approach, and really putting consumers first,” Mr. Spiegel said. “The more that companies can align with the government to do what’s right for customers, I think everyone will win there.”He said the concern that regulating big tech would slow growth should be balanced with a consideration of America’s values.“The important thing in all of these debates is to, I think, offer at least the other side of economic progress, which may be the preservation of values that we care a lot about,” he said. “The real world and the internet are one and the same. They have a dramatic impact on one another. And that means that I think we need to be a little more thoughtful and deliberate about the products we’re creating and releasing widely.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford and Inyoung Kang(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a historic trade deficit for the U.S., a shift for Facebook and a look at the last Blockbuster video store.The U.S. imported a record amount of products last year, widening its trade deficit in goods to its highest level in history, the Commerce Department said on Wednesday. The trade deficit is the difference between how much a country sells to trading partners and how much it buys. President Trump has focused on narrowing that gap, which he considers a measure of whether other countries are taking advantage of the U.S. Few economists share that view.The details: The increase was driven by a global economic slowdown and the relative strength of the dollar. It was exacerbated by Mr. Trump’s $1.5 trillion tax cut, which left Americans more money to buy imported goods.After a wave of scandals, the world’s largest social network will prioritize private, encrypted communication in small groups, a sharp turn from the sort of public sharing it was built on.“I believe a privacy-focused communications platform will become even more important than today’s open platforms,” Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said in a blog post.What’s next: Mr. Zuckerberg was vague on many details of the shift, including how long it would take, but he said it would partly be achieved by integrating Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger, which historically have been operated autonomously.After an internal backlash, the party’s leaders in the House have postponed a vote on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism, which was widely seen as a response to an anti-Israel remark from Representative Ilhan Omar.The controversy has largely overshadowed Democrats’ legislative efforts in the past month, although the House is planning to vote this week on the For the People Act, a collection of anticorruption proposals. Here’s a look at what’s in the bill. Yesterday: The Democratic National Committee barred Fox News from hosting or televising debates for the party’s 2020 primary, citing the network’s “inappropriate relationship” with President Trump.Related: The pieces for Joe Biden’s presidential campaign are falling into place, and could make him a clear front-runner for the 2020 Democratic nomination. The only thing missing? Mr. Biden’s decision to run. As fertility rates across the U.S. decline, some of the largest drops have been among Hispanics. The birthrate for Hispanic women fell 31 percent from 2007 to 2017.The decline has been driven in part, demographers say, by generational differences. Hispanic women born in the U.S. are less likely to be poor and more likely to be educated than their immigrant mothers or grandmothers, according to the Pew Research Center. Many are delaying childbearing to finish school and start careers, just like other American-born women.Voices: “One thing my parents instilled in me was to get an education, don’t get married and have kids right away,” said Mayra Ramirez, 29, of Franklinton, N.C.Fifteen years ago, there were 9,000 Blockbuster video rental stores. After today, there will be just one.One of our business reporters examines how that store, in Bend, Ore., has survived the changes that have reshaped how people watch movies at home. Huawei sues U.S.: The Chinese electronics giant sued the federal government on Wednesday, arguing that it had been unfairly and incorrectly banned as a security threat.More Michael Cohen documents: President Trump’s former lawyer has provided new information to Congress in an effort to back up his claims that Mr. Trump’s lawyers helped alter a false statement Mr. Cohen gave to lawmakers in 2017.Lawmaker’s rape allegation: Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, has testified in Congress that she was raped by a superior officer. Clash over border security: During a hearing in the House, Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, faced criticism of the Trump administration’s treatment of migrant families at the border and its claims of a national emergency.Financial deregulation: Federal regulators have moved to ease oversight of large banks and other financial firms, continuing a push by the Trump administration to reverse rules put in place after the 2008 financial crisis.Celebrity chef exits: Mario Batali, facing accusations of sexual misconduct, has been bought out by his restaurant partners.Tesla’s new strategy: The electric-car maker’s shift to online-only sales, after a push to open dealerships, has raised questions about its outlook. Snapshot: Above, LeBron James of the Los Angeles Lakers on Wednesday, when he passed Michael Jordan to become No. 4 on the list of the N.B.A.’s leading scorers. James, who wears No. 23 because of Jordan, has 32,311 points in his career.Artifact is recovered: Acting on a tip, the police in Ireland have recovered a mummified head believed to belong to an 800-year-old Crusader knight that was stolen from a medieval church crypt.Late-night comedy: “With all the terrible things going on right now, this year for Lent I’m not giving up anything,” Jimmy Kimmel said. “I’m just giving up, in general.” What we’re reading: This article in The New Yorker. Steven Erlanger, the chief diplomatic correspondent for Europe, writes: “If you think Fox News is ‘fair and balanced,’ Jane Mayer's reporting on the organization’s handling of President Trump will have you think again.”Cook: Match sweet, tangy citrus with peanuts and avocado for a satisfying salad.Listen: “Jerrod,” an invitation to a timid lover from Solange’s new album, “When I Get Home,” has an insistent, syncopated pulse, writes Jon Pareles.Go: The fourth wall breaks in “Suicide Forest,” a play about Japanese-American identity, revealing something so heart-stingingly tender that the whole work shifts. It’s being performed at the Bushwick Starr in Brooklyn.Read: The writer and illustrator Lucy Knisley explores fertility and complications during pregnancy in her memoir “Kid Gloves,”  new this week on our paperback nonfiction best-seller list.Smarter Living: March is Women’s History Month, all the more reason to look at travel tours led by and for women. Travel agents have seen a big uptick in interest since the start of the #MeToo movement, and the participants may be able to bond over stories of struggle and passion. We’ve highlighted four.Also, if your office has free snacks, we’ve collected some wide-ranging examples of how your peers are turning them into meals.If you’re about to open a can of something tasty, thank the French.In the late 1700s, Napoleon was on the move, invading Italy, Austria and Egypt. Feeding his enormous armies was a problem — he needed a way to keep food from spoiling.A confectioner, Nicolas Appert, spent years coming up with a successful process. He placed fruits, vegetables and meats in glass bottles, corked and wired them, then boiled the bottles for hours. He didn’t know he was killing microbes — he just knew that the more heat and less air, the better.By 1810, Napoleon’s government handed him a 12,000-franc prize and required him to publish a book, with the catchy title “The Art of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances for Many Years.”Glass, unfortunately, breaks. It was the British who developed the tin can.We end today on a somber note: Alex Trebek, the longtime host of “Jeopardy!”, announced on Wednesday that he has Stage IV pancreatic cancer. “I’m going to fight this,” Mr. Trebek, 78, said. “And I’m going to keep working.”That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— Chris and InyoungThank youTo Eleanor Stanford, Chris Harcum and Mark Josephson for the break from the news. James K. Williamson put together Smarter Living and also wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the Green New Deal.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: “Notorious” nickname on the Supreme Court (3 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • NYT Cooking, a subscription service of The New York Times, has a guide to making and canning jam (in glass jars). Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Inyoung Kang is an editor and producer based in London.  @inyoungk Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressCANBERRA, Australia — New Zealand's official privacy watchdog on Monday described Facebook as ""morally bankrupt"" and suggested his country follow neighboring Australia's lead by making laws that could jail executives over streamed violence such as the Christchurch mosque shootings.Privacy Commissioner John Edwards has been critical of Facebook's response to a gunman using the platform to livestream some of the slaughter of 50 worshippers and the wounding of 50 more at two mosques on March 15.Edwards made his comments after Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg recently rejected calls to introduce a delay in his livestreaming service Facebook Live, saying it would interfere with the interactivity of livestreaming.""Facebook cannot be trusted. They are morally bankrupt pathological liars who enable genocide (Myanmar), facilitate foreign undermining of democratic institutions,"" Edwards posted on Twitter.Facebook has been criticized for not doing enough to police hate speech in Myanmar, where a government campaign against minority Rohinyga Muslims has been described by the UN as ethnic cleansing. The platform has also been at the center of claims that Russia meddled in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.Facebook responded to Edward's post with a statement that said its chief operating officer, Sheryl Sandberg, had recently shared the policy and technical steps the company was taking to strengthen the rules for using Facebook Live, address hate on Facebook platforms and support the New Zealand community.""We are deeply committed to strengthening our policies, improving our technology and working with experts to keep Facebook safe,"" the statement said.Edwards, who is tasked with protecting New Zealanders' personal information according to the country's Privacy Act, said that governments needed to come together and ""force the platforms to find a solution"" to the problem of livestreaming of atrocities like the Christchurch slayings as well as suicides and rapes.""It may be that regulating, as Australia has done just in the last week, would be a good interim way to get their attention and say: 'Unless you can demonstrate the safety of these services, you simply can't use them,'"" Edwards told Radio NZ.Edwards regards himself as an advocate for Christchurch victims who had their right to privacy violated by having their deaths broadcast via Facebook to the world in real time.His office said the privacy commissioner had taken to making his criticism of Facebook about its lack of livestreaming safeguards public ""because he has few other options.""""Under the current Privacy Act, his office has no penalties it can impose on global tech companies like Facebook,"" the commissioner's office said in a statement.""His only resort is to publicly name Facebook for not ensuring its livestreaming service is a safe platform which does not compound the original harm caused by the Christchurch killings,"" the statement added.The Australian Parliament on Thursday passed some of the most restrictive laws about online communication in the democratic world.It is now a crime in Australia for social media platforms not to quickly remove ""abhorrent violent material."" The crime would be punishable by three years in prison and a fine of 10.5 million Australian dollars ($7.5 million), or 10% of the platform's annual turnover, whichever is larger.The Digital Industry Group Inc. — an association representing the digital industry in Australia including Facebook, Google and Twitter — said taking down abhorrent content was a ""highly complex problem"" that required consultation with a range of experts, which the government had not done.Australia wants to take its law to a Group of 20 countries forum in Japan as a template for holding social media companies to account.New Zealand's Justice Minister Andrew Little said last week his government had also made a commitment to review the role of social media and the obligations of the companies that provide the platforms. He said he had asked officials to look at the effectiveness of current hate speech laws and whether there were gaps that need to be filled.Facebook last year disregarded Edwards' ruling that it had breached the Privacy Act by not releasing information to a New Zealand man who wanted to know what others were saying about him on the social network.Facebook argued that it was not bound by New Zealand's Privacy Act because it was based overseas, but later agreed to comply with the local law.New Zealand's Parliament is amending the Act to give the privacy commissioner more powers and to clarify that offshore companies that hold information about New Zealanders must comply with the Act.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike IsaacSAN FRANCISCO — My favorite new social network doesn’t incessantly spam me with notifications. When I post, I’m not bombarded with @mentions from bots and trolls. And after I use it, I don’t worry about ads following me around the web.That’s because my new social network is an email newsletter. Every week or so, I blast it out to a few thousand people who have signed up to read my musings. Some of them email back, occasionally leading to a thoughtful conversation. It’s still early in the experiment, but I think I love it.The newsletter is not a new phenomenon. But there is a growing interest among those who are disenchanted with social media in what the writer Craig Mod has called “the world’s oldest networked publishing platform.” For us, the inbox is becoming a more attractive medium than the news feed.The shift toward newsletters is part of a broader change. For years, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, asked us to live in a more “open and connected” version of the world. And billions of us did, posting status updates, photos and videos on the social network and flocking to other services like Twitter, where I post regular messages about my mood, personified in photos of my dog.Now, more of us are moving toward private modes of sharing: a Slack group instead of a tweet; an encrypted Signal message instead of a status update.Even the titans of public sharing have recognized the shift. In early March, Mr. Zuckerberg said that Facebook would focus on private conversations rather than public posts in the future.For me, the change has happened slowly but the reasons for it were unmistakable. Every time I was on Twitter, I felt worse. I worried about being too connected to my phone, too wrapped up in the latest Twitter dunks. A colleague created his own digital detox program to reduce his smartphone addiction. I reckon he made the right choice.Now, when I feel the urge to tweet an idea that I think is worth expounding on, I save it for my newsletter, The Dump (an accurate description of what spills out of my head). It’s much more fun than mediating political fights between relatives on my Facebook page or decoding the latest Twitter dust-up.A new crop of start-ups like Substack and Revue has emerged to cater to this desire to make direct connections with others online without the noise that comes with Twitter or Facebook feeds. They do it by making it easy to start a newsletter, offering dead-simple writing programs and insights into what’s getting read. (I use Substack, and I tend to find out immediately when my writing is terrible, either via the company’s analytics system or from reader emails urging me to stop being weird.)Christopher Best, Substack’s chief executive, said the company’s creation was driven by feelings like the ones I was having. “We felt this growing sense of despair in traditional social media,” he said. “Twitter, Facebook, etc. — they’ve all incentivized certain negative patterns.”What firms like Substack and Revue make possible is more personal than the wave of newsletters that emerged in the early 2000s from companies like Daily Candy, Flavorpill, Nonsense NYC and Oh My Rockness. Those brands mostly blasted lifestyle content out to the masses, targeting city residents with disposable income and attracting millions of dollars in venture capital, said Naveen Selvadurai, an entrepreneur and partner at the start-up incubator Expa.More recently, media start-ups like The Skimm, a daily newsletter started by two former NBC producers, have grown from dozens of readers to millions. (The New York Times is a minority investor in The Skimm.) Axios has tapped into the newsletter market with a focus on politics and business. Other big media companies — Vox, BuzzFeed, CNN — have latched on to the trend as they seek a deeper bond with readers.Newsletters could be a more reliable means of increasing readership for major publishers whose relationships with social networks have soured. Remember when Facebook moved away from promoting videos on the platform? Or when it decided to show more posts from friends and family, and de-emphasize content from publishers and brands? With every shift, big media companies had to adjust.“Publishers have learned the hard way that traffic from social media is too volatile,” said Martijn de Kuijper, Revue’s chief executive.For me, a guy writing dispatches from home in his pajamas, email offers a more personal connection between writer and audience. Since beginning The Dump, I’ve traded emails with people who might have followed me on Twitter but felt more comfortable talking with me one on one.That direct connection creates a sense of loyalty between writer and reader that can be difficult to achieve on websites or social networks. Establishing such a bond, Mr. de Kuijper said, increases the likelihood that people will read you what you have to say.Most enticing of all, I own my audience for The Dump, which I created using tools from Substack. And in contrast to what happens if I quit Facebook or Twitter, I can keep my fans — an ample email subscriber list — if I decide to leave Substack’s service.“You don’t have to fight an algorithm to reach your audience,” Casey Newton, a journalist who writes The Interface, a daily newsletter for the technology news site The Verge, told me. “With newsletters, we can rebuild all of the direct connections to people we lost when the social web came along.”It can be more than just a creative endeavor: Newsletters can make a fine one-person business. Writers can charge readers to a monthly fee for their newsletters. Substack takes a cut of that fee; Revue charges writers using a tiered-pricing system based on the size of newsletter’s subscriber base.Luke O’Neil, an independent writer, charges $6.66 a month for a subscription to his widely read, offbeat newsletter, “Welcome to Hell World.” He has 4,000 subscribers, 700 of whom pay for his regular dispatches.“I want to be myself, which is weird, angry and aggressively depressed,” Mr. O’Neil told me. “It turns out, there are enough people out there who also like the same things I do. With a little luck, it just might work.”My newsletter is free and I may never charge for it (it is, after all, an experiment and I have a job at The Times). But it could help me promote my other work, like  a book I’m completing or my Times articles.Using this method of private sharing is already affecting the way I post things publicly. Since January, I have consistently tweeted 15 to 30 percent less each week than I did the week before, according to Twitter’s summaries of my account activity (some of my followers may be grateful). I’m also using my smartphone less.To be clear: I don’t intend to give up my low-grade Twitter addiction. I have built meaningful friendships on the platform, and it’s been a pathway for people to discover my work.But perhaps next time I want to muse on something more nuanced, I won’t immediately blurt it out to the Twitter-verse, only to be lost in a sea of other tweets, or to have Twitter make money off my ideas by sandwiching it between ads.Instead, I’ll save it for my newsletter following — the one that belongs to me.Don’t follow Mike Isaac on Twitter. Try his newsletter: mikeIsaac.substack.comAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byArticle of the DayBy Jeremy EngleBefore reading the article: Do you ever think about how much you and your family throw away?What’s in your trash? Could other people still use it? Do you ever feel guilty about tossing it out? Do you ever give away, or donate things, you don’t need?Americans throw away hundreds of millions of tons of trash each year. The average person produces nearly five pounds of trash each day, while a family creates about 17.4 pounds of trash daily, which adds up to roughly 1,600 pounds per person and 6,000 pounds per family each year.If you piled all the trash Americans produce in a year, it would reach the moon and back 25 times!Jake Orta, 56, an Air Force veteran, is one of hundreds of people in San Francisco who earn their living from the garbage other people have thrown out.First, look at the photographs featured in the article. What can you tell about the life of a full-time trash picker in San Francisco? What story do these photographs tell?Now, read the article, “In San Francisco, Making a Living From Your Billionaire Neighbor’s Trash,” and answer the following questions: 1. The article begins, “Three blocks from Mark Zuckerberg’s $10 million Tudor home in San Francisco, Jake Orta lives in a small, single-window studio apartment filled with trash.” Why did Thomas Fuller, the author, start with this comparison? What details does he provide in the next two paragraphs to further describe the setting? What kind of picture do they paint? 2. The author writes that “trash scavengers exist in many United States cities and, like the rampant homelessness in San Francisco, are a signpost of the extremes of American capitalism.” What does this statement mean? How does he support this claim?3. How much does Mr. Orta earn a day from the trash he finds? Describe the circuit he travels each day to find trash. What rules does he follow?4. Which biographical details about Mr. Orta did you find most interesting? Why has he struggled with homelessness through his adult life?5. Why does Robert Reed, the spokesman for Recology, the company that collects garbage in San Francisco, say much of the waste in his city is the “trash of convenience”? How is this beneficial to Mr. Orta’s search for valuable garbage?6. How does Mr. Orta compare to other trash pickers in San Francisco? Why does he see himself as more of a “treasure hunter” than a trash picker?7. What are some of the most notable items Mr. Orta has found in other people’s garbage. Which does he consider his favorite? Which is the most intriguing to you?Finally, tell us more about what you think: — What is your reaction to Mr. Orta’s journey from Air Force member to homeless person to treasure hunter?— Nick Marzano, an Australian photographer who documents the world of trash pickers in San Francisco, calls the occupation of trash pickers like Mr. Orta “a civic service.” Do you agree?— What does it say about our society that some live off the items that are discarded by others? Do you agree with the author that it is a “signpost of the extremes of American capitalism”? Do you disagree? Why?— Does the article make you rethink what and how much you throw away? If yes, how has it changed how you might now handle the items you would normally consider garbage?— What’s the coolest thing you ever found in the trash? Did you ever wonder how or why it got there? Do you agree with the saying “one person’s trash is another person’s treasure”?— In 1962, John Steinbeck wrote:American cities are like badger holes, ringed with trash — all of them — surrounded by piles of wrecked and rusting automobiles, and almost smothered with rubbish. Everything we use comes in boxes, cartons, bins, the so-called packaging we love so much. The mountains of things we throw away are much greater than the things we use. In this, if no other way, we can see the wild and reckless exuberance of our production, and waste seems to be the index.What do you think of his perspective on American waste? Is it still true? What, if anything, has changed? What does what we throw away say about our society?Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCommon SenseBy James B. StewartJeff Bezos and his wife, MacKenzie, may be the first billionaire couple with a huge stake in an enormous technology company to announce their divorce.They won’t be the last.The surprise announcement last week that the Bezoses would divorce after 25 years of marriage instantly raised questions about the future of their 16 percent, roughly $140 billion stake in Amazon. As its founder, chairman, chief executive and largest shareholder, Mr. Bezos exerts almost complete control over the company he created.The big question is, now what? Will Ms. Bezos sell her portion of the family’s vast Amazon holdings? Will she seek a seat on the company’s board? Will she push for big strategic or management changes?The Bezos divorce could have consequences for investors in other companies with billionaire founders — Google, Facebook, Groupon and Snap, to name a few. Unlike Mr. Bezos, who owns Amazon shares with ordinary voting rights, these tech entrepreneurs wield control of their companies by holding special classes of shares that confer extra power to their owners.To put it more explicitly: What would happen if Mark Zuckerberg and his wife filed for divorce?That’s not to suggest there’s anything amiss in the relationship between Mr. Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan, or with the marriages of controlling shareholders at any other giant tech company.[Who is MacKenzie Bezos? Her private life has become a public fascination.]But more such breakups are inevitable — after all, the divorce rate in California is about 60 percent, and many of the founders of high-flying Silicon Valley companies are only now reaching the age for the proverbial midlife crisis.The phenomenon of tech companies with controlling founders is still relatively recent. Google set a trend when it went public in 2004 with dual-class shares that enshrined Sergey Brin and Larry Page as the controlling owners. In the ensuing 15 years, about two-thirds of initial public stock offerings backed by venture capital funds have involved similar super-shares, according to Dealogic.The fate of such controlling shares in cases of divorce is, or should be, of intense interest to investors.David F. Larcker, director of the Corporate Governance Research Initiative at Stanford’s business school and a co-author of “Separation Anxiety: The Impact of CEO Divorce on Shareholders,” said his research showed that “shareholders should pay attention to matters involving the personal lives of C.E.O.s and take this information into account when making investment decisions.”The law doesn’t explicitly require controlling shareholders to disclose prenuptial or other agreements that could affect the disposal of their company stakes in the event of divorce. But some experts said they would support such a requirement.“It’s absolutely material, and as a result it should be disclosed,” said John C. Coffee Jr., director of the Center for Corporate Governance at Columbia University. In theory, he said, any provision that would reassure investors would lead to a higher share price. “There’s no question it’s in the best interests of shareholders,” he said.Charles M. Elson, a professor and director of the corporate governance center at the University of Delaware, also supports the disclosure of prenuptial agreements. “No one thought a Bezos divorce was a risk factor” for Amazon, Mr. Elson said. “Now no one knows how this will turn out. From a shareholder perspective, it’s certainly material.”Mr. Larcker said requiring public disclosure might be going a little too far, considering the privacy issues involved. But he agreed that, at the least, a board needed to be kept fully informed.“Once a divorce settlement is underway,” he said, “the board needs to think about whether the ex-spouse will demand a board seat, whether they are planning to liquidate their shares or perhaps sell as a block to an investor, maybe an activist. All of these actions can have a real impact on shareholder value.”So far, investors have hardly reacted to the Bezos breakup — Amazon’s shares are up slightly since the announcement. That might be partly because the couple went out of their way to characterize the split as amicable, saying they plan to “continue our shared lives as friends.”When many billions of dollars are at stake, amicable divorces are rare, even when they start out that way. “Most divorces start out contentious and end contentious,” said Samantha Bley DeJean, a matrimonial lawyer in San Francisco, who has worked with many Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and represents Angelina Jolie in her custody battle with Brad Pitt. “When they start out amicably, you hold out some hope that they’ll stay that way, but in my experience it only gets worse.”In 2017 Mark Pincus, the billionaire founder of the internet game company Zynga, and Alison Gelb Pincus filed for divorce. The two had a prenuptial agreement, which hasn’t been made public, but presumably addressed the issue of Mr. Pincus’s 70 percent voting stake in Zynga. In an interview with The New York Times last year, Mr. Pincus said the split was amicable.After the couple filed for divorce, Mr. Pincus converted his super-voting shares into ordinary shares, reducing his voting control of Zynga to about 10 percent. He told The Times that the conversion had nothing to do with the divorce.Ms. Pincus is an entrepreneur in her own right: she helped found the online retailer One Kings Lane, which was sold in 2016 to Bed Bath & Beyond for nearly $30 million. The Pincuses quietly finalized their divorce last year on terms that haven’t been made public. Zynga hasn’t disclosed any changes in Mr. Pincus’s shareholdings since then.A spokeswoman for Zynga, where Mr. Pincus remains executive chairman, declined to comment. Ms. DeJean, who represented Ms. Pincus, said she couldn’t discuss the case. But in general, she said, the fact that both spouses are extremely wealthy typically doesn’t change the dynamics of a divorce.“It becomes a matter of principle,” she said, “and principles can be dangerous in these situations, especially when there’s enough money to litigate them.”In their 2010 divorce, Steve and Elaine Wynn, the founders of the casino company Wynn Resorts, each received half of the couple’s 36 percent controlling stake in the company, valued then at $1.4 billion. To maintain Mr. Wynn’s control, Ms. Wynn agreed to vote her shares along with her ex-husband.At the time, the arrangement seemed amicable: Ms. Wynn warmly described Mr. Wynn as her “partner of 41 years and father of her children,” and Mr. Wynn said he was delighted that his ex-wife would remain on the company’s board.That didn’t last long. After two acrimonious years, Ms. Wynn was forced off the board and sued to regain voting control of her shares.The animosity only deepened after The Wall Street Journal reported last year that Mr. Wynn had repeatedly sexually harassed Wynn employees and had paid a manicurist $7.5 million after she told others that Mr. Wynn had forced her to have sex.That led Mr. Wynn to step down as chief executive. He sold his shares, leaving his former wife as the company’s largest shareholder. Since peaking in 2014, Wynn shares have fallen by more than half.Mr. Larcker’s research found that among 24 chief executives who got divorced between 2009 and 2012, seven (29 percent) stepped down within two years of the divorce settlement.Ms. DeJean said she had recently drafted numerous prenuptial agreements for young entrepreneurs. Negotiating them is delicate: It’s not especially romantic to be discussing the disposal of assets in a divorce proceeding in the middle of a courtship or engagement.The idea of making those prenuptial terms public could be anathema to such clients.Still, Ms. DeJean said, “I can see why investors would want to know.”An earlier version of this column paraphrased incorrectly Mark Pincus’s comments about the conversion of his shares in Zynga. He said the conversion of his super-voting shares into ordinary shares had nothing to do with his divorce from Alison Gelb Pincus; he made no reference to a lawsuit.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta and Melina Delkic(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Meng Wanzhou heads to court, Tesla and Facebook rethink their strategies and Virgin Atlantic makes lipstick optional. Here’s the latest:The Supreme Court of British Columbia will decide whether the Huawei executive, who has been detained since December, should be extradited to the United States, where she faces fraud charges. The proceedings began on Wednesday, with the court setting a date for the hearing.What to expect: Canada approves about 90 percent of the extradition requests it receives, so it is likely that Ms. Meng will be sent to the U.S., though it could take months.The judge will determine whether the fraud that Ms. Meng is charged with in the United States is also a crime in Canada.Her lawyers, however, will argue that the charges are politically motivated, which could potentially help her case.In other Canada news: Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s former top adviser and close friend, Gerald Butts, testified before a parliamentary committee, trying to defuse a political scandal that has threatened Mr. Trudeau’s job.The United States imported more goods than ever last year, bringing its trade deficit with the rest of the world to $891.3 billion.President Trump has long been fixated on narrowing the trade deficit, which he believes is a measure of whether countries around the world are taking advantage of the U.S. Though few economists share that view, the new figures suggest that by his own metric, Mr. Trump is failing.Reasons: The increase in the amount of goods imported was driven, in part, by a broader economic slowdown and the strength of the U.S. dollar, both of which weakened global demand for American exports.The Trump administration’s trade war and tax cuts exacerbated the trend. In fact, the U.S. imported a record amount of goods from China, despite Mr. Trump’s tariffs on billions of dollars’ worth of Chinese goods, and American exports to China fell by nearly 50 percent in December. And money from the tax cuts helped Americans buy more imported goods.Made in America: Four companies in the U.S. were found to have falsely advertised that their products were American-made when in fact they were manufactured in China. After the North Korean leader returned from his meeting with President Trump in Hanoi, Vietnam, without any sanctions relief, experts around the world wondered what he would do next.American and South Korean analysts announced on Tuesday that the country was rebuilding key missile-testing facilities, raising concerns that it was preparing to resume testing its weapons.The reasoning: North Korea may have wanted to rebuild the sites in order to make their dismantling more dramatic if the Hanoi summit meeting produced a deal, the intelligence officials were quoted as saying, or it may have wanted the option to resume rocket tests if talks broke down.The flip side: Other experts believe that a weak economy may force Mr. Kim back to the negotiating table.North Korea’s economy contracted by 3.5 percent in 2017 because of sanctions, according to South Korea’s central bank. And United Nations officials estimate that food production last year fell to its lowest level in more than a decade.After years of scandals surrounding user privacy, the world’s largest social network will prioritize private and encrypted communication between users, shifting away from its founding principles of public sharing and an open platform.“I believe a privacy-focused communications platform will become even more important than today’s open platforms,” Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said in a blog post.Details: Mr. Zuckerberg said he planned to spend the years ahead building systems and products that create a type of “digital living room” where people can communicate privately across all of the company’s networks — Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger.In other business news: Tesla is shutting down most of its stores — just three months after a sprint to open new locations — in an effort to cut costs at a time when investor confidence in the company and its founder, Elon Musk, is wavering. Grab: The Singapore-based ride-hailing giant, which serves eight countries in Southeast Asia, secured a $1.5 billion investment from SoftBank, bringing its current valuation to about $14 billion, according to a person briefed on the matter.Carlos Ghosn: The former Nissan chairman may have gotten out on bail before his trial — a relatively rare feat in Japan — but he faces steep odds: Japanese prosecutors have a 99 percent conviction rate with indicted defendants.Michael Cohen: Six checks from President Trump to his former personal lawyer that were obtained by The Times show how he paid to keep secrets private while in the White House.Solomon Islands: An oil spill from a Hong Kong-flagged cargo ship that ran aground last month is spreading toward a World Heritage site, East Rennell, alarming environmentalists and government officials. Officials in Australia, which has a close relationship with the Solomon Islands, said they would send vessels, equipment and experts to help contain the damage.Italy: The Benetton family, known widely for its clothing brand, also owns Autostrade per l’Italia, or Highways for Italy, a private company that managed the bridge that collapsed in Genoa last year, killing 43 people. The calamity is now the subject of a criminal inquiry.Virgin Atlantic: The British airline sent a note to its female flight attendants, instantly recognizable in their sleek red skirts and crimson lipstick, that they no longer have to wear any makeup and can choose to wear pants.Goldman Sachs: Executives at the Wall Street giant told employees in an internal memo that the company would be adopting a more “flexible” dress code in an attempt to lure younger workers who might be considering careers in Silicon Valley, where jeans and sneakers are the norm.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Match sweet, tangy citrus with peanuts and avocado for a satisfying salad.Tours by and for women have grown in popularity, from bonding on a polar bear cruise in Norway to a cultural retreat in Calgary. Here are four destinations to consider.Lighting, textiles, throw pillows and smells: There are ways to style a room on a budget; all you really need is a bit of imagination and patience.If you’re about to open a can of something tasty, thank the French. And the British.In the late 1700s, Napoleon was on the move, invading Italy, Austria and Egypt. Feeding his enormous armies was a problem — he needed a way to keep food from spoiling.A confectioner, Nicolas Appert, spent years coming up with a successful process. He placed fruits, vegetables and meats in glass bottles, corked and wired them, then boiled the bottles for hours. He didn’t know he was killing microbes — he just knew that the more heat and less air, the better.By 1810, Napoleon’s government handed him a 12,000-franc prize and required him to publish a book, with the catchy title, “The Art of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances for Many Years.”Glass, unfortunately, breaks. It was the British who soon developed the tin can.James K. Williamson wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Melina Delkic is a senior staff editor.  @MelinaDelkic Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Nick CorasanitiIn his six years in the Senate, Cory Booker has progressed from a moderate who defended private equity to a leading progressive voice on issues like criminal justice reform and marijuana legalization. As he transitions to a national presidential campaign, which he announced Friday, the candidate has been focusing on some key issues that animate the left wing of the Democratic Party.Mr. Booker has made criminal justice reform a cornerstone of his Senate tenure. He sought early on to craft bipartisan bills that would have changed penalties for nonviolent crimes and reduced prison sentences, though neither effort became law. Late last year, Congress passed a criminal justice reform act, signed by President Trump, that Mr. Booker had originally sponsored. But during his time as mayor, Newark’s police department faced accusations of brutality and intimidation, and the Department of Justice launched an investigation into the department; Mr. Booker said he “welcomed” the inquiry.In 2017, Mr. Booker announced his support for the Medicare for All Act drafted by Senator Bernie Sanders, and reiterated his support in an interview after he announced his candidacy Friday, saying “I signed up and am a big believer in Medicare for all.” But as a senator from New Jersey who had received millions in campaign contributions from the pharmaceutical industry, Mr. Booker had been reluctant to focus regulatory efforts on the industry, voting against a measure in 2017 that would have greatly reduced drug prices by allowing imports from Canada. He has since reversed course, announcing his support this year for Mr. Sanders’s bill to rein in prescription drug costs.Mr. Booker said Friday that “environmental justice” will be one of the three top policy issues of his campaign. He has recently signed on to endorse the Green New Deal, a progressive litmus test on the environment pushed by Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, that pushes for investments in clean-energy infrastructure and policies to directly address climate change.From his time as mayor of Newark, Mr. Booker has been a strong champion of charter schools, a stance that runs counter to the progressive Democratic base. And it’s a position that he continues to hold. He said in a 2018 interview that “my loyalty is to a free public school, high-quality public school education,’’ adding that this includes charter schools.Education reform also gave Mr. Booker his most high-profile moment as mayor of Newark, when he went on The Oprah Winfrey Show with Gov. Chris Christie to announce that Mark Zuckerberg would be donating $100 million to turn around Newark’s ailing school system. Though Mr. Booker defends the reforms made with the money, many critics have said it was not put to good use, and the city’s system continued to teeter.Mr. Booker has long been a proponent of many core Democratic issues, such as protecting a woman’s right to choose and favoring same-sex marriage. He presided over New Jersey’s first same-sex marriage ceremonies as a senator-elect in 2013. From his position on the Senate Judiciary Committee, he recently challenged Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh and Secretary of State Mike Pompeo over their views on gay rights.In 2017, Mr. Booker introduced legislation that would have legalized marijuana and expunged federal marijuana convictions from criminal records. While the bill had no hope of passing the Republican-held senate, Mr. Booker reiterated his support for legalizing marijuana after announcing his candidacy, telling a radio show that he was for “changing our drug laws, ending prohibition against marijuana.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCanada LetterBy Ian AustenUnlike the last American presidential election, there was no obvious cybermeddling when Canadians voted in 2015 (nor, for that matter, are there signs of it in Alberta, where I’m writing this week’s newsletter as residents get ready to vote on Tuesday).This week, however, Canada’s digital security and spy agency reiterated its warning that the country won’t be immune from foreign online interference in the federal election this October.[Want the Canada Letter in your inbox every week? Sign up here.]Canada’s federal government has been on to this for some time. It recently passed a law regulating foreign election interference through the social media giants Facebook, YouTube (which is owned by Google) and Twitter.But when Karina Gould, the minister for democratic institutions, released the Communications Security Establishment’s report this week, she said she was frustrated by an apparent lack of willingness by those companies to take the issue seriously.“I’m not feeling great about where we are right now,” Ms. Gould said.[Read: Canada, Rebuking Tech Giants, Braces for Possible Election Interference]For a government that has otherwise courted those companies to set up engineering centers, particularly around A.I., it was an extraordinary rebuke. And Ms. Gould doubled down. Given that lack of cooperation, Ms. Gould said that the government is scouring its existing laws to see what it can use to force compliance, and that it is looking around the world for examples of additional laws and regulations to introduce.Here’s a quick guide as to how other governments are regulating social media or steps they are proposing:• With a sweeping data privacy bill that went into effect almost a year ago, the European Union is widely seen as the world’s leader in regulating social media. It’s also encouraging other countries to match its measures, recently signing a data agreement with Japan. Adam Satariano wrote this definitive overview of how the regulations work.Using the law, regulators in France fined Google 50 million euros this year, in part for not making it clear how it uses people’s data to sell advertising.• After the horrific shooting in Christchurch, New Zealand, the Australian government rushed through a bill that would jail executives of social media and impose staggering fines if they fail to quickly remove “abhorrent violent material.” But my colleague Damien Cave, who also writes the Australia Letter, reported that Australia’s haste, with little in the way of consultations about the law, may leave it vulnerable to legal challenges.In light of Australia’s actions, Damien also wrote a superb global overview on dealing with tech monoliths.• On the same day that Ms. Gould spoke in Canada, a parliamentary committee in Britain released proposals for reining in social media companies, something that embattled Prime Minister Theresa May has said is a key priority.• Singapore unveiled draft legislation this month to stop the spread of false information. Critics fear it may be used to stifle opponents of the government.• In India, the government has proposed giving itself sweeping powers to remove internet content. Vindu Goel, one of my colleagues based there, found that many people are drawing comparisons with China’s internet censorship.• Last year Germany started a crackdown on digital hate speech that was informed by its history, and that goes beyond even the European Union’s strict measures. It further tightened restrictions on data gathering by Facebook in February.• And after long being a laggard on internet privacy and regulation, the United States is now taking interest.Last month Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, said that it was time to regulate his company.And make sure you read this provocative column, published in Opinion this week by the longtime tech writer and, more recently, Times columnist Kara Swisher.“Let me be clear — I love technology, including my deeply felt relationship with that iPhone that spans decades now,” she wrote. “But it has never been more urgent to put up some guardrails. While I do not consider the behemoth tech companies monsters, they can and do act monstrously.”___This week’s Trans Canada and Around The Times highlights were compiled by Lindsey Wiebe, the Canada audience growth editor.—It’s “very likely that Canadian voters will encounter some form of foreign cyber interference” in the election this October, according to a report by Canada’s electronic eavesdropping and security agency.—Facebook has banned several far-right groups and figures in Canada, including Faith Goldy, who ran for mayor of Toronto last year.—It’s an inescapable fact of life in Resolute Bay, Nunavut: In spite of the frigid temperatures, the ice is melting. And that means the Russians are coming.—A Toronto jury has proposed new safety recommendations seven years after a stage roof collapsed at a Radiohead concert and killed a technician.—Racism was entrenched in Nova Scotia when Joan Jones, who died this month at 79, moved there in the 1960s. She knew she had to change that.—Canada has reached its lowest poverty rate in history, David Brooks writes in the Opinion section. What’s its secret?—Boeing and the airlines that rely on its planes have been scrambling to adjust since the 737 Max was grounded. And with no timeline for the return of the Max, costs are mounting.—A man infected with the newly discovered Candida auris fungus died after being hospitalized for 90 days. But the germ did not — and proved so invasive the hospital had to rip out parts of the floor and ceiling to eradicate it.—There are small ways to improve any job, and those incremental improvements can add up to major increases in job satisfaction.A native of Windsor, Ontario, Ian Austen was educated in Toronto, lives in Ottawa and has reported about Canada for The New York Times for the past 15 years. Follow him on Twitter at @ianrausten.We love reading your feedback on this newsletter. Please email your thoughts and suggestions to nytcanada@nytimes.com. And if you haven’t done so, please take moment and subscribe to the email newsletter version.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy The Associated PressToday in HistoryToday is Wednesday, April 10, the 100th day of 2019. There are 265 days left in the year.Today's Highlight in History:On April 10, 1865, Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee, a day after surrendering the Army of Northern Virginia at Appomattox Court House, said farewell to his men, praising them for their ""unsurpassed courage and fortitude.""On this date:In 1866, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals was incorporated.In 1912, the British liner RMS Titanic set sail from Southampton, England, on its ill-fated maiden voyage.In 1916, the Professional Golfers' Association of America was founded in New York.In 1925, the F. Scott Fitzgerald novel ""The Great Gatsby"" was first published by Scribner's of New York.In 1932, German President Paul Von Hindenburg was re-elected in a runoff, with Adolf Hitler coming in second.In 1947, Brooklyn Dodgers President Branch Rickey purchased the contract of Jackie Robinson from the Montreal Royals.In 1962, Stuart Sutcliffe, the Beatles' original bass player, died in Hamburg, West Germany, at age 21.In 1968, ""In the Heat of the Night"" won best picture of 1967 at the 40th Academy Awards; one of its stars, Rod Steiger, was named best actor while Katharine Hepburn was honored as best actress for ""Guess Who's Coming to Dinner.""In 1971, a table tennis team from the United States arrived in China at the invitation of the communist government for a goodwill visit that came to be known as ""ping-pong diplomacy.""In 1981, imprisoned IRA hunger striker Bobby Sands was declared the winner of a by-election to the British Parliament.In 1998, the Northern Ireland peace talks concluded as negotiators reached a landmark settlement to end 30 years of bitter rivalries and bloody attacks.In 2010, Polish President Lech Kaczynski (lehk kah-CHIN'-skee), 60, was killed in a plane crash in western Russia that also claimed the lives of his wife and top Polish political, military and church officials.Ten years ago: Police in Tracy, California, arrested Sunday school teacher Melissa Huckaby in connection with the death of 8-year-old Sandra Cantu, whose body had been found in a suitcase. (Huckaby eventually pleaded guilty to kidnapping and murdering her daughter's playmate; she was sentenced to life without parole.) French Navy commandos stormed a sailboat held by pirates off the Somali coast, freeing four hostages; however, one hostage was killed in the operation.Five years ago: A bus carrying 44 students from Southern California for a free tour of Humboldt State University on the state's far north coast collided with a FedEx tractor-trailer near Orland; five students and three adult chaperones died, along with the drivers. A woman was taken into custody after throwing a shoe at Hillary Clinton as the former secretary of state began a Las Vegas convention keynote speech; the shoe missed. KISS, Nirvana and Bruce Springsteen's E Street Band were ushered into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame at Brooklyn's Barclays Center. CBS named Stephen Colbert to succeed the retiring David Letterman as host of the ""Late Show.""One year ago: During five hours of questioning from a U.S. Senate panel, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg batted away accusations that he had failed to protect the personal information of millions of Americans from Russians intent on upsetting the U.S. election, though he conceded that Facebook needed to work harder to make sure the tools it creates are used in ""good and healthy"" ways. The international chemical weapons watchdog said it was sending a fact-finding mission to a Syrian town where a suspected chemical gas attack had taken place over the weekend.Today's Birthdays: Actor Max von Sydow is 90. Actress Liz Sheridan is 90. Football Hall of Famer John Madden is 83. Reggae artist Bunny Wailer is 72. Actor Steven Seagal is 67. Folk-pop singer Terre Roche (The Roches) is 66. Actor Peter MacNicol is 65. Actress Olivia Brown is 62. Rock musician Steven Gustafson (10,000 Maniacs) is 62. Singer-producer Kenneth ""Babyface"" Edmonds is 61. Rock singer-musician Brian Setzer is 60. Rock singer Katrina Leskanich (les-KAH'-nich) is 59. Actor Jeb Adams is 58. Olympic gold medal speedskater Cathy Turner is 57. Rock musician Tim ""Herb"" Alexander is 54. R-and-B singer Kenny Lattimore is 52. Actor-comedian Orlando Jones is 51. Rock musician Mike Mushok (Staind) is 50. Rapper Q-Tip (AKA Kamaal) is 49. Former Missouri Gov. Eric Greitens is 45. Actor David Harbour is 44. Blues singer Shemekia Copeland is 40. Actress Laura Bell Bundy is 38. Actor Harry Hadden-Paton is 38. Actress Chyler Leigh is 37. Pop musician Andrew Dost (fun.) is 36. Actor Ryan Merriman is 36. Singer Mandy Moore is 35. Actor Barkhad Abdi (BAHRK'-hahd AHB'-dee) is 34. Actress Shay Mitchell is 32. Actor Haley Joel Osment is 31. Actress Molly Bernard (TV: ""Younger"") is 31. Country singer Maren Morris is 29. Actor Alex Pettyfer is 29. Actress-singer AJ (AKA Amanda) Michalka (mish-AL'-kah) is 28. Actress Daisy Ridley is 27. Singer-actress Sofia Carson is 26. Actress Audrey Whitby is 23. Actress Ruby Jerins is 21.Thought for Today: ""Work is something you can count on, a trusted, lifelong friend who never deserts you."" — Margaret Bourke-White, American photojournalist (1904-1971).Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — Britain proposed sweeping new government powers to regulate the internet to combat the spread of violent and extremist content, false information and harmful material aimed at children. The proposal, announced on Monday, would be one of the world’s most aggressive actions to rein in the most corrosive online content.The recommendations, backed by Prime Minister Theresa May, take direct aim at Facebook, Google and other large internet platforms that policymakers believe have made growth and profits a priority over curbing harmful material. The government called for naming an internet regulator with the power to issue fines, block access to websites if necessary and make individual executives legally liable for harmful content spread on their platforms.“The internet can be brilliant at connecting people across the world, but for too long these companies have not done enough to protect users, especially children and young people, from harmful content,” Ms. May said in a statement. “That is not good enough, and it is time to do things differently.”By introducing the proposal even as a deadline nears for Britain to exit the European Union, Ms. May signaled that enacting the new internet regulations was a high priority of her government.Around the world, governments are having a broader debate about reining in the internet and whether their actions will restrict free expression. Frustrated by what they see as a lack of progress to protect users, governments are passing or considering new laws to define what classifies as acceptable online communication. Advocates for human rights and free speech warn that the policies will lead to censorship and be exploited by more repressive governments.After the massacre of 50 people at two   mosques in New Zealand in March, calls have increased globally for internet regulation. The authorities say the gunman distributed a racist manifesto online before using Facebook to live-stream the shooting. In response, Australia passed a law last week that threatens fines for social media companies and jail for their executives if they fail to rapidly remove “abhorrent violent material” from their platforms. New Zealand is also considering new restrictions.In Singapore, draft legislation was introduced last week that supporters said would restrict the spread of false and misleading information. But opponents have warned it could be used to go after critics of the government. India has also proposed broad new powers to regulate internet content. The European Union is debating a new terrorism content measure that some have warned is overly broad and will harm free expression. And Germany last year began prohibiting hate speech. Digital rights groups have criticized the law as leading to the unnecessary blocking of legitimate content.In response to the political backlash, internet companies have toughened their policies and hired tens of thousands of human moderators to screen for problematic material. But with billions of pieces of content being shared each day on services like Facebook, Instagram and YouTube, deciphering what is harmful isn’t always an easy task, and governments have criticized the companies for not being aggressive enough.In recent weeks, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, has said new regulations are needed, particularly to more clearly define what is acceptable content so companies aren’t the main judges.And Facebook took a similar stance in response to the British proposal. “New regulations are needed so that we have a standardized approach across platforms and private companies aren’t making so many important decisions alone,” Facebook said in a statement. “These are complex issues to get right and we look forward to working with the government and Parliament to ensure new regulations are effective.”Claire Lilley, a public policy manager for Google, said the company has invested in new technology and hired experts to address the problems raised by the government, and will work with policymakers to “to ensure a free, open and safer internet that works for everyone.”Twitter said in a statement that it would “engage in the discussion between industry and the U.K. government, as well as work to strike an appropriate balance between keeping users safe and preserving the internet’s open, free nature.”British officials are calling for the creation of a mandatory “duty of care” standard intended “to make companies take responsibility for the safety of their users and to tackle harm caused by content or activity on their services.”The government listed a number of topics that companies could be required to address or risk fines and other penalties. The list includes material thought to be supporting terrorism, inciting violence, encouraging suicide, disinformation, cyberbullying and inappropriate material accessible to children. The rules would apply to social media platforms, discussion forums, messaging services and search engines.The proposal is a first step in a longer legislative process. The recommendations will be debated over the coming months before any new laws and regulations are put in place.Actions in Britain and elsewhere signal a new era for the internet. Western democracies have largely avoided regulating online communication. But as evidence mounts that online actions are having harmful real-life consequences by contributing to violence, compromising elections and spreading hateful ideologies, governments are becoming more willing to intervene.In the United States, where free speech is more of a core value than other nations, there’s been less momentum to regulate internet content. But in Washington this week, the House Judiciary Committee will question executives from Facebook and Google on the spread of white nationalism on social media.“The era of self-regulation for online companies is over,” Jeremy Wright, Britain’s digital secretary, said in a statement. “Voluntary actions from industry to tackle online harms have not been applied consistently or gone far enough.” Technology,” he added, “can be an incredible force for good and we want the sector to be part of the solution in protecting their users. However, those that fail to do this will face tough action.”OpinionSarah JeongAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. Knife crime on the rise in Britain, a new strategy at Facebook and the sordid market for Hitler paintings. Here’s the latest: Knife crime is rising for the fourth straight year in Britain — there were 43,000 such offenses in the year ending Sept. 30, 2018 — though over all it has declined markedly since the mid-1990s. Two recent fatal stabbings of 17-year-olds have refocused national attention on the problem and created a political crisis for Prime Minister Theresa May. The opposition Labour Party is blaming austerity for the rise in knife crime, and Mrs. May’s own home secretary, Sajid Javid, has clashed with her, demanding emergency increases in police funding.Analysis: There are more than 20,000 fewer police officers today than in 2010, and many now spend hours doing the work once done by mental health agencies that have been cut back or eliminated. But analysts largely agree that the data does not connect rising crime to diminished police presence. Instead, they point to austerity cuts to social services, like youth centers and interventions for children who are expelled from school. Looking ahead: Mrs. May said she would hold a summit in the coming days and meet with victims.The U.S. imported more goods than ever last year, bringing its trade deficit with the rest of the world to $891.3 billion.President Trump has long been fixated on narrowing the trade deficit, which he believes is a measure of whether other countries are taking advantage of the U.S. Though few economists share that view, the new figures suggest that by his own metric, Mr. Trump is failing.Reasons: The increase in the amount of imported goods was driven in part by a broader economic slowdown and the strength of the U.S. dollar, both of which weakened global demand for American exports. The U.S. imported a record amount of goods from China, despite Mr. Trump’s tariffs on billions of dollars’ worth of Chinese goods. American exports to China fell nearly 50 percent in December. U.S.-Europe trade talks: Negotiators are deeply at odds. The Trump administration has insisted that any deal must address American farmers’ access to the European market, but the E.U. says agriculture had always been off the table by agreement. The competing narratives have made it difficult to even begin talks, with Mr. Trump dangling the possibility of further tariffs in mid-May.  After years of scandals surrounding user privacy, the world’s largest social network will prioritize private and encrypted communication between users, shifting away from its founding principles of public sharing and an open platform.“I believe a privacy-focused communications platform will become even more important than today’s open platforms,” Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, said in a blog post.Details: Mr. Zuckerberg said he planned to spend the years ahead building systems and products that create a type of “digital living room” where people can communicate privately across all of the company’s networks — Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger. He was vague on how long that would take or how private, encrypted communications would affect Facebook’s bottom line. In other business news: Tesla is shutting down most of its stores — just three months after a sprint to open new locations — in an effort to cut costs at a time when investor confidence in the company and its founder, Elon Musk, is wavering.In the last 10 years, experts say, a seedy niche market has grown around rising demand for art by Hitler. With experts in no rush to offer authentication, and his undistinguished style easy to copy, fraud appears to have flourished. Now German prosecutors are stepping in. Last month, they searched Weidler’s auction house in Nuremberg and confiscated scores of paintings as part of an investigation into forgery and fraud, and there was an earlier raid at the Kloss auction house in Berlin. An auction by Weidler’s of a few works recently went ahead anyway, and our reporter attended. Background: With 63 works impounded and an estimated 100 already sold, Weidler’s has handled a curiously large number of “A. Hitler” works, experts say, especially given how few are likely to exist. Hitler did most of his painting before World War I, after he was rejected from art school. Once in power, he ordered the works collected, and he may have destroyed some of the worst misfires. North Korea: The country’s deepening economic trouble may propel it to return to the negotiating table, experts say — or resume weapons tests to force a deal. Sexual assault: Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, told a hushed Senate hearing room that she had been sexually assaulted multiple times while serving her country.Brazil: As millions of Brazilians enjoyed the last few hours of Carnival, Jair Bolsonaro, the far-right president, posted a video on Twitter of one man urinating on another in public, which he called evidence of the festivities’ increasing debauchery.Solomon Islands: An oil spill in the South Pacific is spreading just outside a World Heritage site, threatening the coral reef ecosystems there. Iran: The lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh had defended women arrested for defying Iran’s head-covering rule. Now Ms. Sotudeh, 55, has been convicted of security-related crimes in a secret trial and could face a “very lengthy sentence,” a human rights group reported.Italy: To the frustration of U.S. and E.U. officials, the country appears poised to accept Chinese infrastructure investment that is part of a drive to advance China’s global interests and influence. Carlos Ghosn: The former Nissan chairman has been released on bail, a relatively rare feat in Japan, but he faces steep odds in his trial on charges of financial misconduct: Japanese prosecutors have a 99 percent conviction rate with indicted defendants.Virgin Atlantic: The British airline said that female flight attendants would no longer have to wear makeup or skirts.Ireland: Thanks to a tip, the police in Dublin recovered a mummified head believed to belong to an 800-year-old Crusader knight. A week earlier, it had been stolen from a medieval church crypt in the city. Switzerland: The star of the Geneva International Motor Show this week is a one-of-a-kind Bugatti supercar that has already sold for $19 million, reputedly the highest price ever paid for a new automobile. Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Match sweet, tangy citrus with peanuts and avocado for a satisfying salad.Tours by and for women have grown in popularity. From a polar bear cruise in Norway to a cultural retreat in Calgary, here are four destinations to consider.Lighting, textiles, throw pillows and smells: There are ways to style a room on a budget; all you really need is a bit of imagination and patience.If you’re about to open a can of something tasty, thank the French. And the British.In the late 1700s, Napoleon was on the move, invading Italy, Austria and Egypt. Feeding his enormous armies was a problem — he needed a way to keep food from spoiling.A confectioner, Nicolas Appert, spent years coming up with a successful process. He placed fruits, vegetables and meats in glass bottles, corked and wired them, then boiled the bottles for hours. He didn’t know he was killing microbes — he just knew that the more heat and less air, the better.By 1810, Napoleon’s government handed him a 12,000-franc prize and required him to publish a book, with the catchy title “The Art of Preserving Animal and Vegetable Substances for Many Years.”Glass, unfortunately, breaks. It was the British who soon developed the tin can.James K. Williamson wrote today’s Back Story. Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe social network has disclosed an estimate for years, but a closer look raises lots of questions.By Jack NicasFacebook sells advertisers on its access to real people — 2.32 billion of them, a network that exceeds the populations of North America, South America and Africa combined.But do that many people really use Facebook? The answer lies partly in how many of the accounts are fake. The Silicon Valley company defines fake accounts as profiles that are either designed to break its rules, for example by spammers or scammers impersonating others, or that are misclassified, such as someone setting up a Facebook profile instead of a Facebook page for a business.Yet the number of Facebook accounts that fit those descriptions is less clear. While the company discloses its estimates of fake accounts, its figures have fluctuated and are confusing. Even Facebook admits its understanding of the numbers is tenuous. “Duplicate and false accounts are very difficult to measure at our scale,” it said in a securities filing in October, and the actual numbers “may vary significantly from our estimates.” With Facebook reporting a jump in the number of fake accounts on its site on Wednesday, let’s dig into what figures it has given before — and why they don’t necessarily add up. That has implications for the manipulation and abuse of the platform, as well as the company’s business.First take a look at how Facebook’s estimates for fake accounts, made in securities filings, have oscillated in recent years:What the table shows is that Facebook cut its estimate of fake accounts significantly in 2016. A year later, it more than quadrupled the estimate. And on Wednesday, in small print at the bottom of a slide about earnings, Facebook increased the estimate by 36 percent, to 116 million. So what’s going on?Facebook arrives at its estimates by analyzing a sample of accounts, looking “for names that appear to be fake or other behavior that appears inauthentic,” the company said in securities filings. “We apply significant judgment in making this determination.”Alex Schultz, Facebook’s vice president of analytics, said in an interview that its fake account estimates fluctuated in part because periodic attacks can cause spikes in the figures. He added that Facebook had grown in some emerging markets where fake accounts are more prevalent.For years, investors, analysts and journalists had only Facebook’s estimates to judge fake accounts. Last year, Facebook introduced a transparency page, which discloses how many fake accounts it has taken down each quarter. Those figures revealed that the scope was far larger than the estimates in securities filings had suggested.Let’s run through the math on this in more detail. Facebook’s new numbers added up to more than 2.8 billion fake accounts taken down in the 12 months that ended Sept. 30, or about 7.7 million a day.Facebook had previously reported that about 3 percent to 4 percent of its active users were fake. According to the new figures, the accounts taken down each quarter were equivalent to 25 percent to 35 percent of its active users (though those accounts were not counted in Facebook’s active-user tallies because they had been removed).More curious was how Facebook’s estimate of active fake accounts barely budged even as the number of accounts it took down each quarter fluctuated widely. For instance, Facebook said it had caught 583 million fake accounts in the first quarter of 2018 and 800 million the next quarter. Yet between those two quarters, it told investors that its active fake accounts had increased by roughly one million. Those numbers suggest either that Facebook happens to be eliminating exactly enough accounts each quarter to keep its active fake-account estimate flat — or that its estimate is more like a guess.“You can use your judgment,” said Brian Wieser, an analyst at Pivotal Research who discovered last year that Facebook was claiming it could reach more people in the United States than the Census Bureau said lived in the country. “I think there are reasons to be skeptical of the numbers they put forward.”Facebook’s figures also imply that over the past year, it has caught and taken down roughly 90 percent of fake accounts that are created on its site — most, it said, “within minutes of registration.” Facebook said it also stopped millions of fake accounts from registering each day. Mr. Schultz said such a success rate was possible because “the vast majority of accounts we take down are from extremely naïve adversaries,” who typically create automated accounts that are easy to spot. The smaller number of fake accounts that elude detection are generally manually created accounts. Mr. Schultz added that Facebook was cautious in removing manually created accounts because it didn’t want to erase authentic profiles. “We don’t want to over-enforce,” he said. “So what we actually focus on is the harmful behavior.”Yet obvious fake accounts that are engaging in harmful behavior slip through. Last year, I found dozens of fake accounts masquerading as the company’s founder, Mark Zuckerberg, to scam Facebook users out of cash. Some had been up for years.Facebook also said the vast majority of fake accounts it removed were ones that it had spotted, rather than ones that users had reported. Of the 2.8 billion fake accounts it took down in the year that ended Sept. 30, Facebook said, it found 99.3 percent on its own.Those numbers also contradict my experience. Last year, I easily created 11 Facebook accounts that used the same name, occupation and profile photo as my verified account. They remained live for five days, until I reported them to Facebook. Instagram, which Facebook owns, also left up 10 impostor accounts I had created until I reported them; it took down only five, until I alerted a Facebook spokesman. If an account appears to be impersonating another user but isn’t “engaged in harmful behavior,” Facebook often leaves it up, Mr. Schultz said. He said such duplicate accounts could be from people who had lost their password or were confused. Duplicate accounts are banned under Facebook’s rules. But they persist anyway, in even greater numbers than fake accounts, according to the company’s estimates, compounding its problem of inauthentic activity.Facebook’s estimates of duplicates have also seesawed, including nearly doubling in 2017. On Wednesday, Facebook increased its count by 20 percent, to 255 million. Take a look at the chart below.Aaron Greenspan, Mr. Zuckerberg’s Harvard University classmate who now tracks Facebook, issued a report last week questioning how many authentic users Facebook has. Mr. Greenspan, who started a site called “the Face Book” while at Harvard and settled a trademark dispute with Facebook in 2009, said he believed the social network had far more fake accounts than it had disclosed, posing a grave risk to its business.“The fact there are so many unexplained differences and so many gaps, it paints a picture that, when you combine all these factors together, it would indicate there’s something going on here that they’re trying to hide,” he said.Mr. Schultz said Facebook was doing its best to police inauthentic accounts and be as transparent as possible about how many it believed were still on its site. “We disclose it very publicly, in my opinion,” he said. When I asked him how advertisers felt about paying to show ads to fake accounts, Mr. Schultz said, “What advertisers need to feel comfortable about are the actual results generated by our ad campaigns.”Jack Nicas covers technology from San Francisco. Before joining The Times, he spent seven years at The Wall Street Journal covering technology, aviation and national news.  @jacknicas • Facebook Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byButtigieg detaches progressive policy from the culture war.By David BrooksOpinion ColumnistPete Buttigieg has some kind of magic right now. His campaign bio, “Shortest Way Home,” was the 25th-best-selling book on Amazon when I checked on Monday. That put him just a few dozen places behind Michelle Obama, and thousands or tens of thousands of places ahead of Kamala Harris, Bernie Sanders and the other candidates who have campaign books out now.In a recent Iowa poll he surged to third place. His campaign just announced that it’s raised an impressive $7 million since January. And I can’t tell you how many Democrats in places as diverse as Nebraska, Indiana, New York and Washington have come up to me over the last few weeks raving about the guy. I met a superfan in Frederick, Md., who says that every few hours she calls the campaign to give another $10. This is the biggest star-is-born moment since Lady Gaga started singing “Shallow.”Why are people so in love with the mayor of South Bend, Ind., who almost nobody had heard of until he did a CNN town hall on March 10?It’s important to remember that when Democrats vote next year, they’ll not only be choosing a policy alternative to Donald Trump, they’ll also be making a statement about what kind of country they want America to be.The Trump era has been all about dissolving moral norms and waging vicious attacks. This has been an era of culture war, class warfare and identity politics. It’s been an era in which call-out culture, reality TV melodrama and tribal grandstanding have overshadowed policymaking and the challenges of actually governing.The Buttigieg surge suggests that there are a lot of Democrats who want to say goodbye to all that. They don’t want to fight fire and divisiveness with more fire and divisiveness. They don’t want to fight white identity politics with another kind of identity politics.They are sick of the moral melodrama altogether. They just want a person who is more about governing than virtue-signaling, more about friendliness and basic decency than media circus and rhetorical war.Buttigieg’s secret is that he transcends many of the tensions that run through our society in a way that makes people on all sides feel comfortable.First, he is young and represents the rising generation, but he is also an older person’s idea of what a young person should be. He’d be the first millennial president, but Buttigieg doesn’t fit any of the stereotypes that have been affixed to America’s young people. Young people are supposed to be woke social justice warriors who are disgusted by their elders. Buttigieg is the model young man who made his way impressing his elders — Harvard, Rhodes scholar, McKinsey, the Navy. Young hipsters are supposed to flock to coastal places like Brooklyn and Portland; after college, Buttigieg returned to Indiana. Young people are supposed to be anti-institutional, but Buttigieg is very institutional — his life has been defined by his service to organizations, not his rebellion against them.Second, he is gay and personifies the progress made by the L.G.B.T.Q. movement, but he doesn't do so in a way that feels threatening or transgressive to social conservatives. He has conservative family values; it’s just that his spouse is a husband, not a wife. He speaks comfortably about his faith and says that when he goes to church he prefers a conservative liturgy to anything experimental.Third, he is a localist and a Washington outsider, but he carries no populist resentment and can easily speak the language of the coastal elite.Buttigieg has spent his political career in Indiana, where pols are expected to go to county fairs and eat the catfish fillet and cheesecake on a stick. He wasn’t alive when the Studebaker plant shut down in South Bend, but he has the trauma of Midwestern deindustrialization in his bones. He lives in a house near his mother where the mortgage comes to about $450 a month. On the other hand, he was friends with Mark Zuckerberg at Harvard, earned a first at Oxford and thrived as a corporate consultant.Finally, he’s a progressive on policy issues, but he doesn’t sound like an angry revolutionary. Buttigieg’s policy positions are not all that different from the more identifiable leftist candidates. But he eschews grand ideological conflict. “The whole point of politics is everyday life,” he said in his CNN town hall. His book is mostly about how as mayor he faced problems like snow removal and fixing potholes. His big achievements were renaming city streets, repairing the sewer system and tearing down derelict buildings. He says he’ll do whatever works.I’ve only met Buttigieg once, when we were seated at the same table at a dinner in Detroit a few months ago. He was smart, modest and self-effacing, and I can’t square that impression with his assumption that at 37 he’s qualified to be president of the United States. But maybe that’s Buttigieg — he squares a lot of circles. He deftly detaches progressive policy positions from the culture war. He offers change without Sturm und Drang.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.David Brooks has been a columnist with The Times since 2003. He is the author of “The Road to Character” and the forthcoming book, “The Second Mountain.”  @nytdavidbrooks Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBitsBy Natasha SingerEach week, technology reporters and columnists from The New York Times review the week’s news, offering analysis and maybe a joke or two about the most important developments in the tech industry. Want this newsletter in your inbox? Sign up here.Greetings, I’m Natasha Singer, your resident privacy reporter. And I’m writing to you from wintry New York City as the government shutdown increases financial pressure on federal workers and the tech elites jet off to Davos, Switzerland, to hobnob at the World Economic Forum.For the last few years, the forum has been heralding the “Fourth Industrial Revolution.” That’s the idea that today’s digital innovations are generating entire new industries — in much the way electricity enabled the mass production of the Model T Ford in the early 20th century.But a provocative new book, “The Age of Surveillance Capitalism,” by Shoshana Zuboff, a professor emerita at the Harvard Business School, offers a more sobering counternarrative.Published on Tuesday, the book argues that digital services developed by the likes of Google and Facebook should not be viewed as the latest iteration of industrialization. Instead, Dr. Zuboff writes, they represent a new and problematic market form that trades in predicting and influencing human behavior.“Surveillance capitalism has taken human experience, specifically private human experience, and unilaterally claimed it as something to be bought and sold in the marketplace,” Dr. Zuboff told me during a visit to The Times’s office. “This new kind of marketplace trades in behavioral futures. It’s like a form of derivative. But it’s about us.”Yet most of us are not aware that platforms like Google and Facebook may track and analyze our every search, location, like, video, photo, post and punctuation mark the better to try to sway us, she said.In fact, a new study on Facebook from the Pew Research Center illustrates how opaque this behavior marketplace can be to consumers.The study, my colleague Sapna Maheswari writes, reported that about three-fourths of Facebook users were unaware that the social network maintained lists of their personal interests, such as their political leanings, for advertisers. And about half of users who looked at their “ad preferences” — the Facebook pages displaying these details — said they were uncomfortable with the company’s creating lists of categories about them.The technologies that power the behavior speculation market, of course, have spread far beyond online ads.They enable auto insurers to surveil drivers and offer discounts based on their driving performance. They allow workplace wellness programs to charge higher health insurance premiums to employees who decline to wear fitness trackers. They helped Kremlin-linked groups mount political influence campaigns on Facebook (although, as my colleague John Herrman pointed out this past week, we have yet to learn how effective those campaigns were).The flash-trading in human behavioral data was not inevitable.In her book, Dr. Zuboff describes how Google, in its early days, used the keywords that people typed in to improve its search engine even as it paid scant attention to the collateral data — like users’ keyword phrasing, click patterns and spellings — that came with it. Pretty soon, however, Google began harvesting this surplus information, along with other details like users’ web-browsing activities, to infer their interests and target them with ads.The model was later adopted by Facebook.The companies’ pivot — from serving to surveilling their users — pushed Google and Facebook to harvest more and more data, Dr. Zuboff writes. In doing so, the companies sometimes bypassed privacy settings or made it difficult for users to opt out of data-sharing.“We saw these digital services were free, and we thought, you know, ‘We’re making a reasonable trade-off with giving them valuable data,’” Dr. Zuboff told me. “But now that’s reversed. They’ve decided that we’re free, that they can take our experience for free and translate it into behavioral data. And so we are just the source of raw material.”Of course, tech companies tend to bristle at the word “surveillance.” They associate it with government spying on individuals — not with their own snooping on users and trying to sway them at scale.“When organizations do surveillance, people don’t have control over that,” Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief, said in April during a Senate hearing on Cambridge Analytica, the voter-profiling company that improperly harvested the data of millions of Facebook users. “But on Facebook, everything that you share, you have control over.”Surveillance, however, simply means observation or supervision, often with the intent of channeling the surveilled in a particular direction. As Dr. Zuboff’s book points out, that is at the core of Facebook’s panopticon of a business model.In other news:■ Microsoft pledged nearly $500 million in loans to help build affordable housing in the Seattle area. The money is “the most ambitious effort by a tech company to directly address the inequality that has spread” in its backyard, Karen Weise writes.■ Facebook is facing continued pressure to more aggressively counter the spread of divisive disinformation and user manipulation on its platform, Adam Satariano writes. The company said Thursday that it had identified two new Russian-linked misinformation campaigns. “Up to 1,200 people expressed interest in attending one of the roughly 190 events organized by those behind the fake pages,” the article notes. “Facebook couldn’t say whether any of the events had taken place.”■ Legislators must find a new way to regulate social media, Natasha Tusikov, a criminology professor, and Blayne Haggart, a political-science professor, argue in The Conversation. One suggestion, they write: “It’s time to consider noncommercial ownership of social-media entities — including nonprofit or some form of public ownership.”■ And finally, how might countries grapple with a global labor market in which there are few protections for many digital workers? Read the opinion piece in the New Statesman by Mark Graham, a professor at the Oxford Internet Institute.Natasha Singer covers data privacy and tech accountability for The New York Times. She also teaches a tech ethics course at the School of The New York Times, The Times’s pre-college program. Follow her on Twitter: @natashanyt.Interested in All Things Tech? Get the Bits newsletter delivered to your inbox weekly for the latest from Silicon Valley and the technology industry.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byIf no one reads the terms and conditions, how can they continue to be the legal backbone of the internet?By The Editorial BoardThe editorial board represents the opinions of the board, its editor and the publisher. It is separate from the newsroom and the Op-Ed section.The average person would have to spend 76 working days reading all of the digital privacy policies they agree to in the span of a year. Reading Amazon’s terms and conditions alone out loud takes approximately nine hours.Why would anyone read the terms of service when they don’t feel as though they have a choice in the first place? It’s not as though a user can call up Mark Zuckerberg and negotiate his or her own privacy policy. The “I agree” button should have long ago been renamed “Meh, whatever.” The legal fiction of consent is blatant in the privacy scandal du jour. Both Google and Facebook have been paying people — including minors as young as 13 — to download an app that tracks nearly all their phone activity and usage habits.Facebook advertised their app on services beloved by teens, like Snapchat and Instagram, seeking participants between the ages of 13 and 35. The sign-up process required minors to get parental consent. (How rigorous? Users simply had to scroll down and click on a check box.) In exchange for participating in what Facebook called a research project, each user received $20 a month, plus referral bonuses. Similarly, Google’s Screenwise Meter app harvested user information in exchange for money. Google was a little more careful than Facebook, barring minors unless they were participating as part of a larger household.It’s unlikely these children understood what they gave up by agreeing to use the app. And even if they’d received proper parental consent, their parents may not have understood what they were giving away on their child’s behalf. But it wasn’t the predatory nature of these programs that prompted Apple to disable them on iPhones and iPads. Rather, Apple objected to how Google and Facebook had used a loophole to transmit customer data without having to go through Apple first. In other words, it looks as though two tech giants and their armies of lawyers didn’t read the policy closely enough and violated Apple’s terms and conditions.People are often startled by what they wind up giving away by clicking on the “yes” button. They are shocked to find when they connect their Spotify and Netflix accounts to their Facebook account that those streaming services gain access to their Facebook messages. They are confused and outraged by Facebook’s uncanny ability to recommend “friends” that the company shouldn’t really know about — say, a social worker’s client, a sperm donor’s biological child, a woman’s father’s mistress. Data is powerful and can inform on us in unexpected ways. Companies learn all about you, but also all about your friends who haven’t signed up for these services. Consumers’ confusion about this gives rise to conspiracy theories that phone microphones are secretly snooping on users. According to academics who have done the research, that’s probably just paranoia. The likely truth is that all the other data you give away is enough to predict what you have said and will say in conversations.Countless devices and internet services now pervade daily life. We don’t need to live in a world governed by their terms and conditions, propped up by the legal fiction of consent. If empowered and properly funded, the Federal Trade Commission can become the privacy watchdog that this era so desperately needs. And the repeal or modification of the Federal Arbitration Act can defang the very worst provision that so frequently pops up in terms and conditions — the surrender of the right to sue a company in court.Legislation can mandate transparency about who has your data and can give users the right to stop it from being sold. New laws can lay down basic guarantees of privacy that won't require you to wade through hundreds of thousands of words of legalese. Europe is already leading the way with the General Data Protection Regulation. California has followed that example by passing a law with similar protections, scheduled to go into effect in 2020. Americans deserve strong privacy protections. Consent is not enough to replace them. The clicks that pass for consent are uninformed, non-negotiated and offered in exchange for services that are often necessary for civic life. It’s time to start seeing the “I agree” button for what it really is.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Christina CaronFacebook announced Thursday its first policy to combat misinformation about vaccines, following in the footsteps of Pinterest and YouTube.The social network is adopting an approach similar to the one it uses to tackle fake news: The company will not remove incorrect content, but it will aim to reduce the reach of that content by making it harder to find.“Leading global health organizations, such as the World Health Organization and the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, have publicly identified verifiable vaccine hoaxes,” Monika Bickert, Facebook’s vice president for global policy management, said in a statement Thursday. “If these vaccine hoaxes appear on Facebook, we will take action against them.”Anti-vaccination groups have flourished on Facebook, partly because of the site’s search results and “suggested groups” feature.The group Stop Mandatory Vaccination, for example, has nearly 159,000 members. Larry Cook, the founder, bragged on a recently deactivated GoFundMe page about an anti-vaccine Facebook video that he said was averaging over 100,000 views per day. “This is how we reach parents!” he wrote. The video has 50,000 shares and has been viewed 2.1 million times.Under Facebook’s new policy, groups and pages that spread misinformation about vaccines will have lower rankings and won’t be included in recommendations or predictions when users are searching within Facebook, the company said.Instagram, which is owned by Facebook, will have similar policies. “We won’t show or recommend content that contains misinformation about vaccinations on Instagram Explore or hashtag pages,” Ms. Bickert said in the statement.Facebook’s new rules come amid measles outbreaks in the United States and abroad, and just days after yet another study demonstrated that the measles vaccine doesn’t cause autism. The idea that vaccines are somehow linked to autism has been widely debunked, but still persists among anti-vaccination activists.Last month, Representative Adam B. Schiff, Democrat of California and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, wrote a letter to Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, asking what steps the company was taking to prevent anti-vaccine information from being recommended to users.Facebook said its artificial intelligence system will search for vaccine misinformation and flag posts and links — including pictures and videos that appear in closed groups — that will then be reviewed by someone at the company.If the content is found to contain false claims about vaccines, then posts from the violating groups or pages will appear lower in a user’s news feed, the company said. But members of Facebook groups that promote anti-vaccination content will still see the posts on the group’s page. The company said it is working on ways to warn new or existing group members if a group has shared vaccine misinformation.Anti-vaccine groups will become “craftier” as moderation techniques develop, said Joan Donovan, the director of the Technology and Social Change Research Project at the Shorenstein Center at the Harvard Kennedy School.Sometimes anti-vaccine propaganda appears on old, abandoned Facebook accounts, for example. On Thursday afternoon, the Facebook page Occupy Philly showed two recent posts warning about the dangers of vaccination.Anti-vaccination groups can also harness search-engine optimization “by using very specific key words, especially the prescription names of some of these vaccines,” Dr. Donovan said, adding that anti-vaccination groups will also spread out into “momversation groups,” where parents gather online.Screen shots and other images containing written messages can also help posters hide from tech-based moderation, said Dr. Donovan, who researches disinformation and media manipulation.While Facebook said its artificial intelligence system can decipher text that has been added to photos, the company said it will not be targeting every single post about vaccines, and is focusing instead on specific claims about vaccines that have been disproved.The company is also aiming to crack down on advertising that includes misinformation about vaccinations. Such ads will be rejected, Facebook said, and the company may disable ad accounts that violate its policies. It has also removed certain vaccine-related targeting options like “vaccine controversies.”“I’m really pleased that they are recognizing the downstream impact of this kind of misinformation and taking the right steps to balance expression with the recognition that their curation and their suggestions do have an impact on the communities that people join,” said Renée DiResta, the co-founder of Vaccinate California and the director of research at a cybersecurity company. “I think that the decision to stop accepting ad dollars is the right call.”The World Health Organization identified “vaccine hesitancy” as one of this year’s 10 notable threats to global health. The decision to avoid vaccination can stem from many things: worries about side effects, cost, moral or religious objections, or a lack of knowledge about immunizations.As anti-vaccine groups have infiltrated social media, companies have been pressured to stem the tide of misinformation.Last year, Pinterest blocked results associated with certain vaccine-related searches and said last month that it was working with experts to develop a more tailored long-term approach.YouTube started surfacing more authoritative content in late 2017 for people searching for vaccination-related topics, and its policies prohibit anti-vaccine videos from showing ads. In India, the company has rolled out information panels that fact-check specific claims as another way of combating misinformation, YouTube said on Thursday. The company said the fact-check panels will expand to other countries this year.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byWhen we tell people to get off the platform, we recast a political issue as a willpower issue. By Anand GiridharadasMr. Giridharadas is the author of “Winners Take All: The Elite Charade of Changing the World.”When news broke that Facebook users’ private messages were not necessarily private, Taunya Richards, 44, a real estate appraiser in Hillsboro, Ore., immediately panicked: Had she endangered her son? She thought back to her chats with her mother in Idaho, who prefers Facebook’s messenger to texting. Her son is a specialist in the Army; using the Facebook-owned encrypted messaging platform WhatsApp, he had kept her updated as he traveled to what she described as a dangerous foreign base whose location she was supposed to keep secret. She had then sent those location updates to her mother using Facebook Messenger. Now she wonders who has that data. “For a mother,” she told me, “especially one whose whole life has been about protect your kid from these harms, and she’s just doing what a mother does, which is responding to him telling her something that he needs her to know so he’s protected, and someone can come in and take that and just sell it to people as data? You’re putting my kid’s life in danger.”But don’t count Ms. Richards among the growing ranks of people deleting Facebook. “All it does is punish me,” she said. “It doesn’t punish Facebook. It doesn’t change anything. It cuts me off from my family.” Even if a boycott bankrupted Facebook, what’s to stop the next company from doing the same thing? “We need the laws to say, You can’t do this,” she said.Ms. Richards’s dissension from the swelling chorus of #DeleteFacebook is notable and worth considering. In refusing to delete her Facebook account, she is refusing to turn the power abuses of the tech industry into an issue of personal responsibility.The impulse to delete Facebook is understandable. In an era of political gridlock and dysfunction, it feels good to start somewhere. There is the hope that waves of deletions will send a signal to the company’s leaders and to the lawmakers who are meant to regulate it.But it would also seem to be the case that if millions of angry individuals were going to save us from the worst excesses of the tech industry, we would have been saved from them by now. Collective action is difficult against a global behemoth like Facebook. Even were such action to succeed, the company also owns WhatsApp and Instagram. With a couple of billion users on Facebook alone, it is hard to fathom how many deleted accounts it would take to drive genuine change.And it’s possible that #DeleteFacebook might actually play into Facebook’s hands, by recasting a political issue as a willpower issue. As Ms. Richards asks, thinking of her son overseas, should the burden of fixing Facebook, and data privacy in general, really fall on her? Or is telling people to delete their accounts on a platform to which there are few alternatives the digital equivalent of ordering women to smile more if they want to get ahead at the office?If I were Mark Zuckerberg, I might actually relish seeing my users agonize over the question of “to delete or not to delete.” Every moment they are talking about whether to walk away from the content they’ve created and the network they’ve built is a moment they aren’t talking about Facebook executives being brought to justice and the company brought under proper regulation.“Individual action is great, but count me as skeptical that we will collect enough of us to change the behavior of the biggest and most powerful companies in the world,” Senator Brian Schatz, Democrat of Hawaii, who is working on emerging bipartisan legislation, told me. “This is literally what government is for. This is what public policy is for. We need a federal law.”Or perhaps we need a few laws. One priority may be privacy legislation to ensure that Facebook’s conscience isn’t the decider of what “private” means. Another could be the rewriting of antitrust law for the digital era. But an easy, obvious place for Congress to start is this: to do right by Ms. Richards and her soldier son. No tech company’s growth lust should come at the price of our soldiers’ safety and the peace of mind of those awaiting their return.Anand Giridharadas is the author of, most recently, “Winners Take All: The Elite Charade of Changing the World.”Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Mike Isaac and Kate CongerSAN FRANCISCO — When Logan Green, chief executive of the ride-hailing service Lyft, was asked which tech leaders he admired, he pointed to three men who had built their companies ruthlessly: Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg and Jeff Bezos.“A lot of other Silicon Valley companies are very scared to get their hands dirty with operations,” Mr. Green said in a 2017 interview with The New York Times, adding that he wanted to emulate the take-no-prisoners methods of Mr. Musk, Mr. Zuckerberg and Mr. Bezos.The problem for Mr. Green is that Lyft seems very nice. Its app is pink. Its cars were once adorned with fuzzy bubblegum-colored mustaches. Its drivers have a reputation for being friendly. And while Lyft has racked up more than one billion rides and become a strong No. 2 to Uber in the United States and Canada, it has not shaken off its cuddly image.Now Mr. Green, 35, must show that Lyft can be as assertive as an Amazon or a Facebook. He and Uber are locked in a race to take their companies public: Both filed papers in December to list on the stock market in the coming months. The offerings — the first for any ride-hailing firm — are likely to create a bonanza of riches in Silicon Valley and set the stage for listings of other highly valued tech start-ups, including Slack and Pinterest.The pressure is on Mr. Green to get the jump on Uber. (Both offerings have been stalled because the government shutdown, which ended Friday, prevented the Securities and Exchange Commission from reviewing their filings.) Lyft, which was last privately valued at $15.1 billion, is tiny compared with its rival and could be overshadowed if Uber debuts first. Uber could go public at a $120 billion valuation.For Mr. Green, this means he may have to give up some up his reserve and step into a more public role. While Lyft’s more gregarious president, John Zimmer, his No. 2 for the last 12 years, has frequently handled the public-facing side of the business, Mr. Green would rather speak at staff meetings than at tech conferences. Colleagues describe him as reserved.In a 2017 interview, Mr. Zimmer said Mr. Green was often misunderstood because of his quiet demeanor. “He is, like, extremely competitive,” Mr. Zimmer, now 34, said. “He has been an activist.”Lyft declined to make Mr. Green or Mr. Zimmer available for new interviews, citing the quiet period before an initial public offering. In a statement, the chief operating officer, Jon McNeill, described them as “cutthroat missionaries in service of creating positive change.”One of the tech leaders Mr. Green cited as inspiration, Mr. Musk, recommended against taking Lyft public.“The current system makes long-term value creation and product innovation difficult,” Mr. Musk, chief executive of Tesla, wrote in an email last week. “It insists on quarter-by-quarter results or punishes companies severely. This is particularly bad for companies that are high growth and are valued on potential, like Lyft (or Tesla).” (The S.E.C. fined Mr. Musk  last year for a tweet about taking Tesla private.)Mr. Green, who was born and raised in Culver City, Calif., graduated from the University of California, Santa Barbara, in 2006 with a degree in business economics. He then worked as the university’s sustainability coordinator, poring over alternatives to the gas-guzzling one-car-per-owner model. He was also on the board of the Santa Barbara Metropolitan Transit District, a position that gave him insight into municipal transportation.While visiting Zimbabwe on vacation during his 20s, Mr. Green said in the 2017 interview, he was inspired by Zimbabweans who had created makeshift services to fill every seat in car pools, saving passengers money and taking cars off the road.So in 2007, Mr. Green started Zimride in Santa Barbara, Calif., to provide long-distance car-pool rides to college students by matching them with other students who were driving.Mr. Zimmer, then working at Lehman Brothers, noticed posts about the start-up on Facebook from John Siegel, whom he had met while studying abroad and who had attended middle school with Mr. Green.“John didn’t have this technical or programming background, but he was this really impressive guy,” Mr. Siegel said. “I thought they could work together well.”Mr. Green and Mr. Zimmer, who remained in New York, embarked on what Mr. Zimmer called a “long-distance relationship,” working together over Skype. In 2008, they moved to a two-bedroom apartment in Palo Alto, Calif. Neither drew a salary in the first three years of building Zimride, and each contract they sold to a college was celebrated with a trip to Ikea for Swedish meatballs, Mr. Zimmer said.In 2011, Zimride raised $6 million. But as a web service, it was caught flat-footed by the rise of smartphones and mobile apps. In 2012, Mr. Green decided to spin out of Zimride a mobile, peer-to-peer ride-hailing service, calling it Lyft.Instead of just pairing students for long-distance rides, Lyft would put drivers together with riders on public streets, in real time. Mr. Zimmer came up with the idea to emblazon the cars with pink mustaches; Mr. Green encouraged passengers to greet their drivers with a fist bump, to keep the community feeling of Zimride.At the time, ride-hailing wasn’t legal, and only licensed drivers could pick up passengers on public streets. Ann Miura-Ko, a partner at the venture capital firm Floodgate, who had invested in Zimride and sits on Lyft’s board, recalled that some board members had been doubtful about the change — but that Mr. Green had been confident.“Someone asked, ‘Will this really work?’ And he wasn’t just sure, he was positive,” she said.But Mr. Green didn’t reckon with one issue: Uber. At the time, Uber, run by Travis Kalanick, had positioned itself as a luxury service for the wealthy that used only licensed drivers, unlike Lyft’s lower-cost service. In 2013, Uber published a white paper outlining the risks of peer-to-peer ride-hailing, a way to elbow Lyft out of the market.“They were trying to get the whole category shut down behind the scenes,” Mr. Green said. “They didn’t want competition.”Uber officials met with California regulators about the matter. As for Mr. Green, several current and former regulators and lawmakers who oversee ride-sharing in California said they had never worked with him, because Mr. Zimmer was often the one who communicated with officials.“Truth be told, I’ve never heard of him,” said Aaron Peskin, a San Francisco supervisor who called for crackdowns on Uber and Lyft in their early years and negotiated a new per-ride tax with Uber and Lyft last summer.Mr. Kalanick eventually moved Uber into non-luxury ride-sharing with no licensed drivers, the same as Lyft. He and Mr. Green quickly became bitter rivals. When Mr. Green was set to introduce Lyft’s car-pooling product in 2014, Uber announced the same service first.That same year, Uber considered buying Lyft. Over dinner at Mr. Kalanick’s home in San Francisco, the Uber chief laughed at Mr. Zimmer’s high asking price. No deal was struck.An Uber spokesman declined to comment. A spokesman for Mr. Kalanick didn’t return a request for comment.While Mr. Kalanick went on to raise billions of dollars in funding for Uber, Mr. Green relied on Mr. Zimmer’s Wall Street knowledge and showman personality to garner investments from venture capitalists and others. In total, Lyft has raised close to $5.1 billion, compared with Uber’s roughly $14 billion in equity.In 2017, Mr. Kalanick was ousted from Uber after a series of scandals. Mr. Green seized the moment, billing Lyft as a kinder, gentler network. Ridership surged, with Lyft taking a share of up to 35 percent in some American cities.More recently, Lyft has ventured into self-driving cars, offering autonomous rides in Las Vegas. It also acquired Motivate, the largest bike-share operator in the United States, giving Lyft a dominant position in an emerging transportation market.In the 2017 interview, Mr. Green said he was far from done.“As an entrepreneur, you always kind of want what you’re pitching to sound somewhat off the wall,” he said. “You’re trying to pitch the future that doesn’t exist, and you want it to be — it needs to be — a little bit of a stretch.”Follow Mike Isaac and Kate Conger on Twitter: @mikeisaac and @kateconger.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBig CityBy Ginia Bellafante[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]This week, the City of New York, through its Commission on Human Rights, officially banned discrimination based on hairstyle, making it one of the rare municipalities in the country to codify the link between prejudice and personal presentation. What this means, essentially, is that employers, landlords, school principals, gym owners, club managers and other institutions and gatekeepers who engage in a persistent form of racism that renders certain judgments of how African-Americans wear their hair, will now be subject to penalties and civil damages should they harass, threaten, fire or deny admission or affiliation to anyone based on a particular set of grooming choices.While it may defy belief that such a clarification would be needed in such a progressive part of the world at the close of the second decade of the 21st century, examples of bias expressed through rules or policies against cornrows, Afros, Bantu knots and other means of wearing hair that do not conform to European standards, in fact, abound.Curly hair, coiled hair, black hair is a trigger, it seems, that reveals the bigotry of people who don’t understand themselves as bigoted, people who just imagine themselves as upholding “standards.”Two years ago, for instance, a young black woman working at a Banana Republic in Westchester County was told by a white male manager that her braids were not “Banana Republic appropriate,” that they were too “unkempt” and “urban” and that he would not be able to schedule her for more shifts unless she took them out. When she told the manager that they protected her hair from becoming coarse in cold weather, he suggested she try some shea butter. Ultimately, he was let go.More recently, state officials in New Jersey opened a civil rights investigation into the case of a black high school wrestler who was told by a referee that his locs violated competition rules. The wrestler, Andrew Johnson, resigned to getting his hair cut right before a match he would have otherwise been made to forfeit.Along with the commission’s announcement on new enforcement guidelines, it said that in the span of just the past few months it had received many complaints of discrimination based on hairstyle. It is currently investigating seven cases, one involving someone who was fired from her job simply for wearing her natural hair down.While this sort of discrimination is common in the retail sector, it is hardly exclusive to the sales floor. Recently, I spoke with Marissa Jackson, a deputy at the Commission on Human Rights, about her own experiences encountering disapproval of the way she put herself together during a past professional life.Several years ago she worked as a summer associate at a prominent Wall Street law firm and routinely straightened her hair. “I went through a period of my life of wanting to fit in and straighten it,” she told me. After she graduated from Columbia Law School and studied at the London School of Economics, she came back to the firm with less of a compulsion to conform and decided to get locs.This was hardly welcome. One partner would never talk to her or make eye contact. “There was this idea that I had tricked people and would be jeopardizing my career,” she told me. “‘Oh, what are you doing? You should have straight hair!’ My white colleagues didn’t say this to me. It was my black colleagues who had internalized these racist ideas and were afraid of what this assertion of identity would mean.” She left the firm and went to work for a black judge.The insidious irony here is that prestigious law firms and big corporations have made efforts to relax the workplace for decades. This usually played out in selective ways for a select group of people. Casual Fridays, which gained popularity in the 1990s, were the vehicle by which middle-age white men could more comfortably be themselves, accommodating expanding waistlines in pleated khakis and fleece vests. These were baby boomers, rebellious in their own minds, who were liberated from the suits that did not speak to who they believed they really were.The rise of Silicon Valley start-up culture gave white men — young white men in particular — even further license to express their authentic identities. When he began his career, Mark Zuckerberg could walk into any boardroom in the country wearing a hoodie, the style signature of fetal billionaires.But how would a young black man be perceived, even today, in the same situation, styled in similar adolescent fashion and with hair that made him look like Questlove? Young black men are told to pull up their pants and look responsible if they want to earn a decent living; young white men have learned that they can rule the world looking like 15-year-olds who have been gaming for the past 36 hours.The casual workplace is, in the end, just another manifestation of white privilege. In 1992, the city of Santa Cruz, Calif., with a population that was 79 percent white, passed an ordinance that made discrimination against appearance unlawful. Santa Cruz was the city of surfers and skateboarders and hackers in tattoos and piercings. Someone thought to protect them a very long time ago.Email bigcity@nytimes.com. Follow Ginia Bellafante on Twitter: @GiniaNYTAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byFixesTechnology engineers have long served big profitable businesses well, while apps focusing on what more altruistic organizations need remained sparse. But that’s changing.By Tina RosenbergMs. Rosenberg is a co-founder of the Solutions Journalism Network, which supports rigorous reporting about responses to social problems.Second of two articlesThere really isn’t an app for everything. At least not for everyone. Avi Karnani first noticed that tech gap when he was just out of business school, working on mergers and acquisitions for Citigroup Global Markets. “At my corporation there was all this great financial tech available to help them manage their risk and achieve anything they wanted,” he said. “But my friends had high-interest credit cards, and high-fee checking accounts and their student loans were incomprehensible. They were calling me up for help, and they didn’t have access to anything like that.”If you run a business, or you’re a consumer of means, there’s a technology solution for every problem you could imagine, and many you probably can’t. But if you’re in financial trouble, or have problems typical of low-income people, sorry. It’s an analog world for you.Still, there are some successes. Last week, I wrote about Propel’s Fresh EBT app, which helps people manage their Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits. Mr. Karnani is the chief executive and co-founder of Alice, a company that automates pretax benefits to enable companies to offer them and let more employees use them. Those benefits can add hundreds or thousands of dollars to a worker’s paycheck. But while white-collar employees can usually get them, most hourly workers can’t.Good Call links people arrested in New York City to a lawyer — within seconds. JustFix.nyc helps New York City tenants respond to eviction notices, compel landlords to make repairs, and represent themselves in housing court.Those four companies got their start at a tech incubator called Blue Ridge Labs, which is part of Robin Hood, a New York City antipoverty organization. It’s the most productive (and possibly the only) early stage incubator for tech companies trying to solve a social problem.Profit-focused tech companies have lots of tech start-up havens where they can get capital, mentorship, colleagues and a chance to show their products; Y Combinator is the best-known.For beginning start-ups seeking social impact, the most prominent organization has been Blue Ridge. Companies in a slightly more advanced stage can apply to Fast Forward in the Bay Area of California, and JPMorgan Chase’s Financial Solutions Lab has fellowships for work on financial apps. Some companies win fellowships at more than one lab.In addition, some other big organizations are now making apps. Code for America makes Clear My Record, which automates legal expungements, and GetCalFresh, which signs people up for California’s S.N.A.P. food assistance program. The International Rescue Committee runs the Airbel Center, which makes technology to help refugees. (Y Combinator accepts a few social impact-focused tech companies each year.)For profit-focused tech companies, accelerators are very helpful. But for social tech, they’re a necessity. This technology is generally more complex to create, and much more difficult to finance.Most low-income people don’t have a computer. So apps need to work on a phone. They should be easy to use for people with little financial sophistication. And they need to work with skimpy data plans. “Text messaging is great,” Mr. Karnani said.When a business contracts with Alice, its employees link their credit and debit cards to Alice’s software. It automatically identifies eligible purchases — health care, child care, commuting expenses — and moves the expense to the pretax category. On payday, Alice texts the employee that the tax she would have paid has been added to her paycheck. “The phone is going to ding and you see that money,” Mr. Karnani said. “You bought a Metro card; here’s fifty bucks.”That’s important, he said. Many poor people have had bad experiences with traditional power structures, such as banks, and don’t trust them. “They’re not going to do it unless they see someone else they know and trust doing it without becoming a victim,” he said. “So it’s great if someone can show their phone message to a friend. The friend says, ‘Hey, I bought a Metro card and I didn’t get fifty bucks. I want my fifty bucks.’”Those are small challenges for app makers. Here’s a very big one: Your audience has very limited ability to pay. So how will you make money?Financial apps can often figure out a business model; Alice, for example, takes half of the amount of money it saves employers on payroll taxes. But tech companies like JustFix and Good Call are nonprofits that must raise money from philanthropy. “It was an uphill battle for us initially, as traditional philanthropic sources of capital are not used to funding technology,” said Georges Clement, co-founder and president of JustFix. Fund-raising is a constant preoccupation for both companies.Most venture capitalists won’t look at investing in tech firms that have no chance to bring big returns — 30 times the value of their investment, or more. To choose those companies, they usually look to what’s worked in the past. “Being different is not something venture capitalists are excited by,” Mr. Clement said.The venture capitalist Ben Horowitz of Andreessen Horowitz famously said that companies that succeed are founded by “college dropouts with insane ideas going after tiny markets with no way to monetize.” (Just to be clear, “college dropouts” in this case means the likes of Mark Zuckerberg and Steve Jobs.)Looking for what has worked in the past is called pattern-matching. It’s an obvious strategy, but it’s really harmful. “Firms are starting to understand that the historical data is incredibly biased, and pattern-matching just ends up confirming those biases moving forward,” Mr. Clement said.Investors apply pattern-matching to people and products, both of which hurt socially focused tech. “It’s people who don’t look like their mental images of founders, and markets that don’t look like what people think are markets,” said Hannah Calhoon, managing director of Blue Ridge.“Our biggest challenge has been getting folks to understand why this is so important,” said Gabriel Leader-Rose, co-executive director of Good Call.The other co-executive director, Jelani Anglin, is unusual in the tech world. He’s from Far Rockaway, Queens — “median income, $38,000 per year,” he said — and his background is in community organizing. “Understanding what our community truly needs has been hard for me to portray,” he said. It has been especially difficult to explain to potential investors a feature of Good Call that allows people to list contact information for their friends and family members, so that Good Call can notify them in case of an arrest. (The police take your phone when you’re arrested. Got those numbers in your head? Me neither.) “Walking to the store, you can be snatched up. That’s a real thing,” Mr. Anglin said, but it’s hard for outsiders to understand.No venture capital? Then founders have to bring their own money. Few can. “Hey, why don’t you leave your job at Google and pay yourself $40,000 a year for something that might fail?” said Ms. Calhoon. “That’s a really different conversation for many people than for someone like Mark Zuckerberg.”This matters because people tend to build products for themselves. They fill a need they know, in a world they know. Mr. Anglin cares about making the criminal justice system fairer. Many tech founders might not even have been aware of its inequities.Tech accelerators can help by providing money, talented peers and mentoring when the market will not. But perhaps the most important thing Blue Ridge provides is something completely different: connections to the community.Tech is a macho world. The tech hero disrupts existing systems. He goes it alone. That can work with certain commercial tech projects. A bring-me-booze-right-now app that puts together buyers and sellers can be created largely through technology.But social tech is different. It doesn’t replace existing systems. Instead, it makes them work better. “You can’t move fast and break things,” said Bill Cromie, director of tech innovation at Blue Ridge. “If you are trying to make a difference in serious systemic challenges facing low-income populations, you can’t operate in a vacuum.”Mr. Clement said that JustFix’s partnerships with community organizations with a long history of helping tenants are “the thing that has been most important in our organization’s success.” “It really does take a village,” Ms. Calhoon said. “You are working with others with the exact same goal. Disrupting is disruptive not only to the ecosystem, but to your own ability to achieve your aim.”Blue Ridge requires companies to include a subject matter expert — one of Mr. Anglin’s jobs for Good Call. It also ensures that companies talk to community members all the time. It has a Design Insight Group, made up of people in the target audience paid to meet with companies and talk about their lives. And companies go into the community to watch and listen. “We don’t design with the community in mind,” Mr. Anglin said. “We design with the community.”The founders of JustFix (one of whom was active in a tenant’s organization) spent weeks talking to tenants, their advocates, Legal Aid lawyers and housing court judges. “It was without a doubt the most valuable thing that Blue Ridge does,” Mr. Clement said.The group came in focused on helping tenants, and the process showed them how. “Our biggest insight came from observing housing court proceedings,” he said. “We were sitting in the back for days and days, watching as countless tenants came in and didn’t have legal representation — and the landlord did. The tenants would come in with a plastic grocery bag filled with different documents. The judge would ask them to describe needed repairs, and they’d take their phones and start swiping through photos. The judge would say: ‘We can’t enter this information as evidence, because we’d have to keep your phone.’”The need to listen to the audience doesn’t go away. Malik Reeves, who is the community engagement coordinator for Good Call, was a user of the hotline; “I got a lawyer within 39 seconds,” he said. He and his interns spend their time in the community. “The proximity thing is important,” he said. “The ground team is so important,” Mr. Anglin said. “Sometimes tech is guilty of being analytically smart, but socially inept.”Tina Rosenberg won a Pulitzer Prize for her book “The Haunted Land: Facing Europe’s Ghosts After Communism.” She is a former editorial writer for The Times and the author, most recently, of “Join the Club: How Peer Pressure Can Transform the World” and the World War II spy story e-book “D for Deception.”To receive email alerts for Fixes columns, sign up here.The Times is committed to publishing a diversity of letters to the editor. We’d like to hear what you think about this or any of our articles. Here are some tips. And here’s our email: letters@nytimes.com.Follow The New York Times Opinion section on Facebook, Twitter (@NYTopinion) and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We’re covering the shake-up at the Department of Homeland Security, the Israeli elections on Tuesday and the N.C.A.A. women’s basketball championship.Kirstjen Nielsen stepped down on Sunday after a rocky tenure in which she supported President Trump’s hard-line immigration policies even as he blamed her for the increased number of migrants illegally entering the U.S. (Read her resignation letter.)After assuming the post in late 2017, Ms. Nielsen led the department during the administration’s “zero tolerance” policy along the Mexican border, which initially resulted in the separation of thousands of migrant children from their families.What’s next: Mr. Trump named Kevin McAleenan, the commissioner of Customs and Border Protection, as acting secretary. In announcing a recent spike in the number of illegal border crossings, Mr. McAleenan said last month, “This is clearly both a border security and a humanitarian crisis.”Catch up: On Friday, Mr. Trump withdrew his nominee to run Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Ronald Vitiello, saying he wanted the agency to go in a “tougher” direction.Fighting for survival before parliamentary elections, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu unexpectedly promised over the weekend to begin extending sovereignty over the West Bank if he is re-elected.The West Bank is home to 2.6 million Palestinians, who view the area as the possible site of a future Palestinian state.Mr. Netanyahu’s major rival, the former army chief Benny Gantz, and analysts dismissed the plan as a last-ditch effort to rally Mr. Netanyahu’s right-wing base.Explainer: Mr. Netanyahu is one of Israel’s longest-serving leaders, but he is facing his strongest challenge in years from Mr. Gantz and the leaders of a centrist alliance. Here’s a guide to Tuesday’s voting. Antibiotics, which have been credited with saving tens of millions of lives, have never been more accessible to the poor, thanks largely to the mass production of generics in China and India. Across much of the developing world, a few dollars will buy drugs like amoxicillin, which treats a broad range of infections.But the increasingly available drugs are losing their ability to kill the germs they were designed to cure. Poverty is a huge and largely unappreciated driver of antibiotic resistance, which is often viewed as a problem in rich countries.“We are quickly running out of treatment options,” a researcher in Kenya said. “If we don’t get a handle on the problem, I fear for the future.”Another angle: A fungus called Candida auris preys on people with weakened immune systems, and it is quietly spreading across the globe. It adds a frightening new dimension to the threat posed by the overuse of antibiotics.Jake Orta lives three blocks from Mark Zuckerberg’s $10 million home in San Francisco. A military veteran who now lives in government-subsidized housing, Mr. Orta is part of an underground economy, scavenging through others’ trash.Mr. Orta sells what he retrieves around town and says his goal is to earn around $30 to $40 a day.Our reporter, who followed Mr. Orta through the alleys of San Francisco, offers a snapshot of the extremes of American capitalism.Quotable: “You’ve got more and more tech people here and this city is moving faster and faster,” said a spokesman for a contractor that collects San Francisco’s garbage. “These people have short attention spans. Some discard items that ought to be repurposed.”On a monthlong trip in Honduras, a Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist and a photographer explored the rampant corruption and gang violence that is leading thousands of women to seek asylum in the U.S. Our Opinion section published their collaboration.The country is one of the world’s deadliest for women, and the city above, Choloma, is one of the most dangerous. Domestic violence is common, and many women are killed by drug cartels and gangs, often in ways intended to spread terror. Battle in Libya: The U.S. military evacuated its small contingent of troops from the Libyan capital, Tripoli, as rival militias fought to stop an aspiring strongman from taking control of the city.Internet regulation: Britain has proposed sweeping government powers to fight the online spread of violent and extremist content, false information, and harmful material aimed at children. The plan announced today would be one of the most aggressive to rein in corrosive online content.Democrats and the death penalty: After California’s governor issued a moratorium on executions, Democratic presidential candidates have embraced abolition. It represents a generational shift for the party but follows a decades-long trend in declining public support for capital punishment.Snapshot: Above, Baylor won its third N.C.A.A. women’s basketball championship on Sunday, defeating Notre Dame, 82-81. Texas Tech and Virginia play for the men’s title tonight.Theater review: A revival of the 1943 musical “Oklahoma!” opened at the Circle in the Square Theater in Manhattan on Sunday. Our critic calls it “the coolest new show on Broadway.”What we’re reading: This first-person piece in The Cut. John Schwartz, a climate reporter, recommends it. “Lizzie O’Leary, one of my journalism heroes, recently resurfaced this 2017 essay about the sexual harassment she’s experienced,” he says. “I’m thinking maybe I should read it at least once a year, and maybe you should, too.”Cook: This easy pie uses crumbled gingerbread-like speculoos cookies in its crust, and a cookie butter spread on top.Listen: Khalid broke out in 2017 with “American Teen.” On his second full album, he suspends his demons in melodies and rhythms that take cues from R&B’s past.Watch: Did you watch the “Killing Eve” Season 2 premiere? Check out some of the creators’ influences, including a YouTube video, a podcast and a viral ad.Read:  Here’s what to read and watch about Kurt Cobain, the Nirvana frontman and grunge icon who killed himself 25 years ago.Smarter Living: Smartphones tend to occupy hours, but there are ways to give your fingers a break, such as setting up text abbreviations to eliminate repetitive typing. Voice assistants have also become more reliable. Set your alarm by saying, “Wake me at 7:30 a.m.” or say, “Do not disturb” as you enter a movie theater or a meeting.We also have advice about how to deal with jerks, without being one.Latin American ministers are descending today on Quito, Ecuador’s capital, to discuss Venezuela’s migration crisis.The choice of location raises a question: When problems erupt in the region, is there a dominant city where they’re hammered out?Not exactly.The city with the largest population is Mexico City. The regional finance capital is Panama City. Brasília is the capital of Brazil, which has the continent’s biggest economy. Latin America’s exiles — from Cubans to the Venezuelans themselves — head north to Miami, where Spanish is often more common than English.A peace agreement with Colombia’s rebels was hammered out in Havana, which has longstanding ties to both the rebels and the Colombian government.While other parts of the world have centers of gravity — think of Beijing, Brussels and Washington — Latin America is still searching for its own.Oh, what a beautiful mornin’. Hope everything goes your way.See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Mark Josephson, Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for the break from the news. Nicholas Casey, the Andes bureau chief for The Times, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about Russia’s campaign of state-sponsored assassinations.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Something raised during a toast (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • The Privacy Project is a new, limited-run newsletter from The Times, exploring what’s at stake as technology blurs the lines between public and private. Sign up here. Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this briefing referred incorrectly to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel. He is the country’s head of government but not its head of state; that’s President Reuven Rivlin.Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday morning. Welcome to the first working day of the new year. Want this by email? Sign up here.Last year was an unexpectedly bad year for the stock market. But Wall Street’s top stock pickers are expecting gains in 2019. Still, there is plenty that could go wrong and upend those forecasts, the NYT’s Peter Eavis and Guilbert Gates write.Here’s a look:Borrowing costs: The Fed increased its target rate four times in 2018, and fears that the central bank would raise interest rates too much and send a chill through the American economy weighed heavily on stocks in 2018. If investors don’t see signs that the economy is growing steadily, they could hang on the Fed’s every move, and monetary policy meeting, this year.President Trump: Investors were mostly tolerant in early 2108 of Mr. Trump’s unpredictable declarations on Twitter. But as the trade war with China escalated, his proclamations began to make investors jumpy. And it wasn’t just the tweets about China: The president also roiled the markets with criticism of the Fed. Mr. Trump is now the top concern that keeps investors up at night.Global growth: Large overseas economies — China, Japan and the European Union — appear to be taking a turn for the worse. Growth may accelerate if trade agreements are forged in 2019. But the problems could run deeper. China’s methods for pulling itself out of an economic rut  are probably not as effective as they once were, and Europe could be hit hard if Britain crashes out of the European Union.Tech stocks: Companies like Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Netflix helped push the S&P 500 and Nasdaq to records. But when some those companies dipped, they dragged the indexes down with them. The market’s fate depends in large part on whether investors fall back in love with large technology companies.What has to go right? The U.S. economy needs to grow strongly, the Fed needs to tread a delicate middle ground, the trade war needs to wind down, and the economies of Europe and China need to stabilize.More on markets: Retail investors are trying to hold on despite the intense volatility. As the great unwind continues, markets are at increased risk of experiencing “doom loops.” Analysts have been trimming their earnings forecasts since September, and investors are worried the outlook for companies will deteriorate further.New data showing weakening factory activity in China is amplifying concerns about the health of the global economy and driving down stocks across Asia.• The Caixin/Markit manufacturing purchasing managers index for China sank last month to 49.7, falling below the 50 mark that represents contraction for the first time since May 2017. The slide, reported today, followed similarly gloomy results on Monday from the Chinese government. The sense of impending malaise spread elsewhere in Asia, with production activity in Malaysia and Taiwan shrinking to its slowest pace in years.• The Hang Seng Index in Hong Kong responded by falling nearly 2.8 percent on the first trading day of 2019. The Shanghai composite index slipped 1.15 percent. In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 was down 1.6 percent. S&P futures also took a hit.• Stocks have been shaky as investors fret about trade tensions between China and the U.S., the Fed’s position on interest rates, and intensifying predictions of waning economic growth around the world.• Employees at Baidu received a letter today from Robin Li, the chief executive of the Chinese technology company, warning that “winter is coming.” In the note, reported by the South China Morning Post, Mr. Li wrote that economic restructuring was “as cold and real as winter to every company.”____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________With talks between China and the United States set to begin this week in Beijing, Robert Lighthizer, the United States trade representative, faces the assignment of a lifetime: redefining the trade relationship between the world’s two largest economies by March 2.But first, writes Glenn Thrush in the NYT, “Mr. Lighthizer will need to keep a mercurial president from wavering in the face of queasy financial markets, which have suffered their steepest annual decline since 2008. Despite his declaration that trade wars are ‘easy to win’ and his recent boast that he is a ‘Tariff Man,’ Mr. Trump is increasingly eager to reach a deal that will help calm the markets, which he views as a political electrocardiogram of his presidency.”After 40 years of dealing with China and watching its government dangle promises that do not materialize, Mr. Lighthizer remains deeply skeptical of Beijing and has warned Mr. Trump that the United States may need to exert more pressure through additional tariffs to win true concessions.Silicon Valley was embattled in 2018. With lawmakers saying Big Tech has too much power and regulation looming, it might seem like a good time for companies like Alphabet, Amazon and Facebook to lie low. That is not the path they are taking, writes the NYT’s David Streitfeld. In fact, Big Tech’s dizzying expansion is barely getting started.Tech companies are competing to own the cloud and become, in essence, the internet’s landlord. Google made a deal in 2017 to reimagine a chunk of waterfront Toronto from the ground up. Amazon is adding warehouses in rural areas to provide urban dwellers with everything they need to stay home. For those who venture out, driverless cars will be operated by Big Tech. And the companies are plunging further into artificial intelligence.To accomplish all this, Big Tech needs hundreds of thousands of new employees. Google is bulking up in New York and Amazon is planning satellite offices in New York and Washington. Even in Silicon Valley, the boom is accelerating. Last spring Facebook leased one million square feet in Sunnyvale, Calif., for its fast-growing community operations team.More on tech: Mark Zuckerberg admits in a New Year’s post that he is facing an uphill battle to fix Facebook. And 2019 is tech’s chance to make it right.The Commerce Department is mulling export restrictions on artificial intelligence, citing the technology’s importance to national security. But Silicon Valley insiders say the potential rules could short-circuit U.S. competitiveness in an industry built largely by Americans, reports the NYT’s Cade Metz.The news: In November, the U.S. government included computer vision, speech recognition and other artificial intelligence categories on a list of “emerging and foundational technologies” being considered for export restrictions. The rules could limit or block exports to countries such as China, whose tactics toward American technology have been criticized by the Trump administration as bullying or illegal.Why it matters: Tech experts are nervous that restrictions could stifle American innovation in the field while increasing development of A.I. technology abroad, especially in Asia. The public comment period closes on Jan. 10.Spencer Neumann is expected to join Netflix as its chief financial officer early in 2019, according to Reuters and the WSJ. He was put on paid leave by Activision Blizzard, where he held the same role, and will be fired, though the video game company did not give a reason.The long-planned ascent of Chung Euisun to the top of Hyundai Motor Group continues with a New Year’s speech he delivered to employees today in place of Chung Mong-Koo, his father and the current chairman of the Korean automotive conglomerate. (FT)Deals• Over the last few years, Blackstone, Carlyle, CVC and other private equity firms have started funds that can own companies for 15 years or longer. (WSJ)• Martin Bandier, the chief executive of Sony/ATV, the world’s largest music publisher, says the music industry is ripe for consolidation. (FT)• The Chinese gold miner Zijin Mining Group plans to sell new shares worth up to 8 billion yuan, or $1.16 billion, in Shanghai to help finance its purchase of Nevsun Resources of Canada. (Reuters)Politics and Policy• The U.S. will get its first taste of divided government under President Trump, as Democrats take a majority the House. The question is, who will control the agenda? (NYT)• How Joe Biden has paved the way for a possible presidential run in 2020. (NYT)• Democratic lawmakers plan to push ahead this year with an infrastructure package, an issue that both parties might support. (FT)Tech• A new cybersecurity law in Vietnam puts stringent controls on technology companies operating inside the country and censors what its citizens read online. (NPR)• Fortnite was very good to Tyler Blevins in 2018. Mr. Blevins, a 27-year-old professional video gamer known as Ninja, said his 94,958 Fortnite kills had helped him earn close to $10 million last year. (CNN)• Didi Chuxing, the Chinese ride-sharing start-up, has begun offering a suite of financial products, including crowdfunding and lending, as it continues to diversify outside of its core business. (Reuters)• Erik Prince, who founded the security company Blackwater, is starting a fund that will raise up to $500 million to invest in metals used for electric-vehicle batteries. (FT)Best of the Rest• Four cases in December show why insider trading will remain a focus for federal prosecutors and regulators. (NYT)• Allergan raised prices on more than two dozen pharmaceutical products by nearly 10 percent, as drugmakers increased prices on hundreds of medicines in the U.S. this week. (WSJ)• Denmark’s government is looking to strengthen the Financial Supervisory Authority, its financial regulator, following concerns about its handling of the Danske Bank money laundering scandal. (FT)• Hedge-fund managers like David Einhorn, whose Greenlight Capital closed out 2018 with its biggest-ever annual loss, are struggling to prove that they can beat the market and are worth their high fees. For many, this will be a make-or-break year. (WSJ)• Major perks for customers like air miles and cash back were meant to lead to higher returns for retail banks. But consumers figured out how to game the system. Now banks are seeking ways to keep customers happy while cutting extras. (WSJ)• Netflix removed an episode of a show featuring the comedian Hasan Minhaj that focused on Saudi Arabia’s role in the killing of the journalist Jamal Khashoggi. The internet streaming service, which took down the content after receiving a complaint from the kingdom, now faces concerns about freedom of expression online. (FT)• Cash begone: The value of Chinese mobile payments more than doubled to $17 trillion in 2017, even as China’s central bank penalizes merchants who do not accept bills and coins. (FT)• American companies raised prices in 2016 to bolster their profits, but in doing so also transferred three percentage points of national income to wealthy families from lower-income households, according to new research. (WaPo)• Showtime’s fictional series “Black Monday,” premiering on Jan. 20, features a group of traders who ride the surging stock market in the 1980s and then suffer its 1987 crash. To present-day Wall Street, it feels familiar and possibly prophetic. (WaPo)• Jeff Bezos, Mark Zuckerberg, Jack Ma: Which billionaires won in 2018, and which lost? (Bloomberg)• Chesapeake Energy shifted its focus to oil from natural gas just in time for oil prices to tumble 40 percent since October. One board member feels “snakebitten.” (WSJ)• Bitcoin slumped about 70 percent in 2018, erasing $160 billion of digital wealth in a move that demonstrated the instability of the cryptocurrency market. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byTech FixHere’s a comprehensive comparison of the two services to help you choose your go-to app for hitching rides.By Brian X. ChenLead consumer technology writerUber and Lyft recently made clear that they are in the ride-hailing business for the long haul. Shortly after Lyft went public with plenty of fanfare last month, Uber shared its plans for its own initial public offering.So now feels like the right time to ask: Is one of the apps definitively superior for hitching rides? While both services look identical, there are major differences. Uber is richer in features and available in more cities. Yet Lyft is more transparent in its receipts about the details of a trip, which can help consumers understand when prices increase; Uber’s opaque receipts could leave people perplexed.I have used Uber and Lyft to hitch hundreds of rides over the last seven years. To take a closer look, I made them my only mode of transportation for the last week, using the apps to get around town while comparing their features, rewards programs, pricing structures, reputations and availability. In the end, I concluded that Uber had an edge, though the best app for you will depend largely on where you live and how often you need rides. Here’s a rundown of how the apps compare.Uber and Lyft are, for the most part, neck and neck in terms of their core features. To summon a car, you tap the app on your smartphone and enter a destination and pickup location. Then you choose the type of car you want: economy, luxury or larger vehicles with more seats like S.U.V.s. To streamline requests, both apps let you save frequently used locations, like your home or office. They both also let you add multiple drop-off points if you are sharing a car with a couple of friends. And to lower costs, both apps let you hail a car to share with a stranger who is going somewhere along your route: Uber calls its feature UberPool, and Lyft calls it a Shared ride. When a trip is complete, payment happens through the app, and you get an emailed receipt documenting the route.But that’s where the similarities end. Here are the notable differences: Uber includes a button to let you split the cost of the fare with multiple riders, which is handy when you’re out with a group. Lyft discontinued its fare-splitting feature last year and said it planned to release an improved version this year. In addition to UberPool, Uber includes a car-sharing feature called Express Pool, where you agree to walk a short distance from your actual location, like to a street corner, and be dropped off somewhere close to your destination. In other words, you save money by walking a bit to make the route more efficient for the driver. Lyft is currently testing a similar feature in three cities. (This isn’t a game-changing feature: In my tests, Uber’s Express Pool option was not available in many locations.) Most important, Uber lets people request wheelchair-accessible cars in about 15 of its top cities. In my tests in San Francisco, wheelchair-accessible cars were available in many areas. Lyft, which declined to comment for this column, has a very limited wheelchair-accessibility program; I wasn’t able to summon one here. The verdict: In terms of ride-summoning features, Uber wins hands down. Its broader wheelchair-accessibility feature is similar to the option offered by traditional taxicabs. And Lyft’s lack of fare splitting makes Uber the app of choice for group outings. Fundamentally, Uber and Lyft charge roughly the same rates: Riders pay a fare based on the duration and distance of a ride. It’s when the companies raise prices that things get more confusing.When not enough cars are available in an area with high demand, both companies use a system known as dynamic pricing, which scales up costs in accordance with supply and demand. So if you’re outside a popular museum and dozens of others are trying to summon cars, Uber and Lyft will raise prices to nudge additional drivers to come to the area. Uber calls its practice surge pricing, and Lyft’s version is labeled Prime Time. In the past, when Uber fares “surged,” the app showed a multiplier — for example, 3X, meaning the fare was triple the normal cost. When prices surge now, Uber does not show a multiplier and instead quotes only the higher price up front. Lyft marks up its Prime Time pricing with a percentage: If the rate is 50 percent, a fare that would normally be $10 costs $15.The verdict: Lyft wins, in part for greater transparency. Its receipts break out details like the duration of the trip and the distance traveled, which helps riders better understand overall costs. In its receipts, Uber does not show the length and duration of the trip; it shows a fare price. The vagueness can make things more confusing, especially when prices are higher because of unexpected circumstances like heavy traffic.In addition, because Uber is generally more popular in most cities, in my experience its surge markup is often significantly higher than Lyft’s, meaning riders are typically better off summoning a Lyft when cars are in high demand. Uber declined to comment, citing a quiet period before its I.P.O.Like airlines that reward loyal customers, Uber and Lyft offer some goodies to frequent riders.Uber provides a tiered rewards system. For most rides, you earn two points for every dollar spent, and the points help you climb toward higher statuses with different perks. At 2,500 points, for example, you reach platinum status, which gives you priority access to drivers at airports, among other things. Uber also offers Uber Cash, a program that gives discounts to those who buy credits that can be applied toward rides. So if you buy $100 of credits, Uber will give you $105 in Uber Cash, effectively a 5 percent discount. Lyft’s rewards program is limited. Last year, it started a program for people who set up business profiles, a tool that made it easier for riders to expense Lyft rides to their companies. For every five business rides that people took, they got $5 in personal ride credit. Late last year, Lyft said it would expand its rewards program so that all rides accrued points that could earn perks, like savings on future rides or upgrades to fancier cars. But so far the feature is available in only a few cities, and Lyft customers can join the program only once they receive an invitation via email or the app.The verdict: Frequent riders will benefit more from Uber’s rewards program, which is more comprehensive and compelling. If you are the conscientious type of consumer, take a look at the companies’ histories.In 2017, Uber was mired in scandal after scandal. Among them: A former employee detailed a rampant culture of sexual harassment; the company was revealed to have used a secret program to identify law enforcement officials and evade sting operations; and it disclosed that hackers had stolen data from 57 million driver and user accounts and kept the breach secret for more than a year. Uber’s former chief executive, Travis Kalanick, was forced to resign.Lyft has a cleaner track record. Last year, The Information reported that some Lyft employees had improperly gained access to user data, including rides taken by their romantic partners and high-profile executives like Facebook’s Mark Zuckerberg. The company investigated the allegations and added restrictions to employee access to data.The verdict: Though neither company is innocent, Lyft wins by a long shot.Uber has an advantage because of its broad availability worldwide. The company, which has operations in 63 countries, is a behemoth compared with Lyft, which is available in just the United States and Canada. The bottom line: In terms of features, reward programs and availability, Uber has an edge over Lyft. Even if you prefer Lyft in your hometown for ethical reasons, it may be practical to keep the Uber app on your phone in case you travel somewhere like London, Paris or Tokyo. Or you could try to hail an old-school taxicab wherever you travel, assuming you can find one. An earlier version of this article misstated how the Uber app reflects the company's so-called surge fares. When prices surge now, the app simply quotes only the higher price. It does not show a multiplier — for example, 3X, meaning the fare was triple the normal cost — as it did in the past.Brian X. Chen is the lead consumer technology writer. He reviews products and writes Tech Fix, a column about solving tech-related problems. Before joining The Times in 2011 he reported on Apple and the wireless industry for Wired.  @bxchen Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Nick CorasanitiNEWARK — Drawing on themes from the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.’s “Letter From a Birmingham Jail,” Senator Cory Booker pitched his campaign for president in newly urgent terms on Saturday, declaring that “we are here today to say we can’t wait” as he laid out his vision for addressing the economic and social ills of the country.In what was billed as the major hometown rally kicking off his campaign, Mr. Booker spoke to a late-arriving but enthusiastic crowd at Military Park, a revitalized green oasis in a city that was once a symbol of urban despair but has credible claims of an economic and cultural resurgence. Mr. Booker combined his familiar themes of unity with specific policies to close the racial wealth gap, repair what he considers a broken criminal justice system and set the country on a path to be a leader in climate change.“We can’t wait when powerful forces are turning their prejudice into policy and rolling back the rights that generations of Americans fought for and heroes died for,” Mr. Booker said. “We can’t wait when this administration is throwing children fleeing violence into cages, banning Muslims from entering the nation founded on religious liberty, and preventing brave transgender Americans from serving the country they love.”The event also marked a kind of apex of Mr. Booker’s focus on Newark, a city he mentions more often on the campaign trail than his own name, hoping that the city’s rocky yet resilient rise can help propel him to the top of a crowded Democratic field for the 2020 election.In a race that features six senators, Mr. Booker has often sought to shift the focus from his time in Washington to his tenure in what is known as Brick City, when he was a young, upstart mayor who quickly achieved celebrity status for his well-documented and social-media-fueled efforts to turn around Newark.“There is nobody in this race who has been a chief executive officer of their state’s largest city managing through a recession,” Mr. Booker told crowds in New Hampshire last weekend.But it is a pitch that is not without risk.[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.]While Newark, which has a population of 285,000, is clearly in the midst of a revival, it still struggles with crime and poverty. The median household income is roughly $20,000 less than the national average, and more than 28 percent of the city’s residents live below the poverty line, according to the United States census.And Mr. Booker’s tenure in Newark was not without blemishes. The Police Department, plagued by decades of mismanagement and corruption, was investigated by the Department of Justice and placed under a consent decree. The results were mixed for a highly touted $100 million investment in Newark schools by Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook. And though homicides reached historic lows early in Mr. Booker’s first term, crime began to tick back up just as he was elected to the Senate in 2013, eliciting criticism that he had stopped focusing on the city with his sights set on Washington.Ras Baraka, the current mayor of Newark, was one of those critics. But he has since reconciled with Mr. Booker, and the two have united around a message of progress sparked by Mr. Booker and brought across the finish line by Mr. Baraka (his re-election slogan last year was “Touchdown!”).[Check out our tracker of the 2020 Democratic candidate field.]“If you make your bones here, there is no place out there that can stop you in this country,” Mr. Baraka said, referring to Newark. “I usually tell people he got us on the field, and we took the ball and got us in the end zone. But if you can’t get in the game, you don’t get to win the championship. Senator Booker got us in the game.”Amid the crowd on a surprisingly hot April afternoon, Mr. Booker basked in the city’s renewal, as evidenced by the street vendors lining the park and the long shadows cast by skyscrapers, both venerable ones and new glass towers bearing the logos of Fortune 500 companies.“When this city took a chance on me as their mayor, the chief executive of this city, I didn’t wait to bring people together,” Mr. Booker said. He continued: “We got people to invest here. We opened new businesses, created thousands of new jobs — and after 60 years of decline, Newark is growing again.”Mr. Booker began his campaign for president with a video from the streets of the city he still calls home, and his campaign swings feature the near ubiquitous campaign line of “I got my degree at Stanford but my Ph.D. on the streets of Newark.” But he ratcheted up his focus on Newark in the weeks before the rally.In a recent campaign swing through New Hampshire, Mr. Booker recalled his much-publicized battle with Conan O’Brien, who as host of “The Tonight Show” in 2009 joked that a better health care plan for citizens of Newark “would consist of a bus ticket out of Newark.” Mr. Booker responded by recording a video “banning” Mr. O’Brien from the city’s international airport. The tiff played out for weeks on social media and late-night shows, before Hillary Clinton stepped in to broker a peace deal.Mr. Booker, who critics sometimes charge chased fame more than his mayoral duties, paints the whole affair as a clever bit of earned publicity for his struggling city.“That video went viral,” Mr. Booker told a crowd at a house party in Bedford, N.H., last week. “Every show I was going on — I went on Jay Leno — every chance I had I talked about the opportunities in Newark. I bragged about my city with more American eyes watching than ever before.”Leading up to Mr. Booker’s address was a cattle call of influential New Jersey Democrats, including Gov. Philip D. Murphy, Senator Robert Menendez, Mr. Baraka and Joseph N. DiVincenzo Jr., the Essex County executive.But as much as his home state and city were represented at the rally — even the marching band from his launch video took the stage to warm up the crowd before Mr. Baraka spoke — Mr. Booker continued to focus on a sense of critical national urgency.In choosing to have his kickoff rally on April 13, Mr. Booker pointed to the same day in 1963, when Dr. King first woke up in a jail in Birmingham and began writing what would become “Letter From a Birmingham Jail.”“Generations of Americans have shown us what was possible when they refused to wait,” Mr. Booker said. “Now it’s our turn. And we have work to do.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the year that the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. wrote “Letter From a Birmingham Jail.” It was 1963, not 1969.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Christina CaronPinterest, a digital platform popular with parents, took an unusual step to crack down on the proliferation of anti-vaccination propaganda: It purposefully hobbled its search box.Type “vaccine” into its search bar and nothing pops up. “Vaccination” or “anti-vax”? Also nothing.Pinterest, which allows people to save pictures on virtual pinboards, is often used to find recipes for picky toddlers, baby shower décor or fashion trends, but it has also become a platform for anti-vaccination activists who spread misinformation on social media.It is an especially effective way to reach parents: 80 percent of mothers and 38 percent of fathers in the United States are on Pinterest, according to 2017 data from comScore. The company has more than 250 million monthly active users and is expected to go public this year.Other platforms like Facebook and YouTube have also been infiltrated with misinformation about vaccines, and are taking steps to combat it. One of YouTube’s policies is to demonetize anti-vaccine videos.But only Pinterest, as first reported by The Wall Street Journal, has chosen to banish results associated with certain vaccine-related searches, regardless of whether the results might have been reputable.“Right now, blocking results in search is a temporary solution to prevent people from encountering harmful misinformation,” said Jamie Favazza, a spokeswoman. The company said it was working with experts to develop a more tailored long-term approach.The changes, which were not publicly announced, started in September and October.Opposition to vaccinations can be traced to the introduction of the first vaccine in the 18th century. Over time most people accepted vaccines, and diseases that could be prevented by them declined. They declined so much, in fact, that the success of vaccines may have muted the dangers associated with those diseases.The World Health Organization identified “vaccine hesitancy” as one of this year’s 10 notable threats to global health.“I think this is stunning,” said Dr. Gregory A. Poland, director of the Mayo Clinic’s Vaccine Research Group in Rochester, Minn. “It shows the magnitude of the problem.”Despite clear evidence that vaccines are effective and safe, some people still choose not to get vaccinated or to vaccinate their children, which has contributed to a surge in measles cases worldwide. In the United States, there have been five measles outbreaks this year and at least 127 individual cases.One or two in 1,000 children who contract this highly contagious disease will die. Last year, measles killed 72 adults and children in the European region, where measles has reached its highest levels in two decades. While measles deaths are rare in developed countries, the illness can have severe lasting consequences, such as vision loss.There are several reasons for vaccine hesitancy: worries about side effects, cost, moral or religious objections, fears about a debunked link to autism and lack of knowledge about immunizations.“We’re just seeing all sorts of misinformation flying around on social media,” said Arthur L. Caplan, head of the Division of Medical Ethics at the New York University School of Medicine, who has been writing about vaccine ethics and policy for 25 years.“Fake news. Fake science,” he said on Friday. “Everybody’s an expert.”Last week, Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, a Democrat and the chairman of the House Intelligence Committee, wrote a letter to Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive of Facebook, asking what steps the company was taking to prevent anti-vaccine information from being recommended to users. He sent a similar letter to Sundar Pichai, the chief executive of Google, which owns YouTube.YouTube said on Thursday that it started surfacing more authoritative content in late 2017 for people searching for vaccination-related topics, and that its algorithmic changes would become more accurate over time.YouTube also said it does not permit anti-vaccine videos to show ads.“We have strict policies that govern what videos we allow ads to appear on, and videos that promote anti-vaccination content are a violation of those policies,” a YouTube spokeswoman said on Friday. “We enforce these policies vigorously, and if we find a video that violates them we immediately take action and remove ads.”An analysis by The Daily Beast of seven Facebook pages that promote anti-vaccine posts found that the pages had bought a combined 147 Facebook ads that had been viewed millions of times. Most of them targeted women over the age of 25, it reported.“We’ve taken steps to reduce the distribution of health-related misinformation on Facebook, but we know we have more to do,” Andrea Vallone, a Facebook spokeswoman, said in a statement. “We’re currently working on additional changes that we’ll be announcing soon.”The company said it was considering reducing or removing this type of content from recommendations and demoting it in search results.Dr. Poland, an internist who has spent 35 years in the vaccine field, said he often encountered patients who relied on social media when researching health questions.“I will explain to a patient in detail the answer to their question and they’ll look at me and say, ‘Yeah, but I saw on Facebook that …’” he said, his voice trailing off. “You just want to tear your hair out.”Twitter said that it had no specific policy to stem the spread of misinformation about vaccines but that its real-time nature was a “powerful antidote.”“We, as a company, should not be the arbiter of truth,” Katie Rosborough, a Twitter spokeswoman, said in a statement on Friday, adding that the company was working to surface the highest-quality and most relevant content first.For all of these companies, containing the spread of misinformation, particularly about something as emotionally charged as vaccines, will be a lasting challenge as they balance fears about censorship with the need to promote useful content, experts said.“It’s a mess that I don’t see easily solved,” Dr. Poland said.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byEssayBy John SchwartzIt’s unicorn season and the money is gushing on Wall Street.I’ve figured out a way to get hold of some of that money, and maybe you’d like to join me. It involves industry disruption and crisis management, with my own soulless twist.This is high-tech stuff, so let me define a few technical terms.First, by unicorns, I’m talking about fantastic beasts: privately held companies worth at least a billion dollars. (Insert your joke here about who can catch a unicorn.) Unicorns like Lyft are sold to investors in  initial public offerings of stock (also known as I.P.O.s), enabling insiders to make a ton of money. The precise terminology for these lucky people is “obscenely rich.”As always, I’ve been wondering: How can I become even naughtily rich? The trick is to find a business I can bootstrap to billions.Disrupting established industries seems to be the way to go: Even children know that Lyft and Uber have disrupted taxi service and Airbnb has disrupted hotels.Now it’s my turn to make a fortune. The crisis management business seems to be ripe for disruption.Crises are everywhere, especially in the business world. A company called Theranos failed so spectacularly that it has generated a best-selling book, an HBO documentary and a big podcast. Theranos claimed to have revolutionized blood tests. It has been a disaster, like the Fyre festival, but with pricked fingers.Then there’s Boeing, not to mention a number of current presidential campaigns. You get the idea.Crisis managers are already in great demand, but I intend to do something different: I’ll create crises, then solve them, leading to a staggeringly successful unicorn I.P.O.Lyft just had its I.P.O. and may soon be followed by some of the biggest names in tech, including Uber, Airbnb and Slack, the annoyingly ubiquitous program for sharing messages in the workplace.Exciting, right? Hope you like roller coasters: Lyft’s shares dropped below their offering price by their second day of trading, which means the stock price could use a … well, you know.The point with an I.P.O. is to be an insider, not a chump who gets fleeced by the insiders. Lyft’s founders, employees and early backers are getting quite a payday. Andreessen Horowitz, the venture capital firm, comes away with about $900 million in instant profit. Carl C. Icahn apparently made about $550 million, according to The Wall Street Journal, by selling his stake to George Soros.That’s the life for me: mogul. I’ve been driving the same car for 10 years. It’s time to move up to something that extravagantly shows how much I love the planet. Not a mere Tesla, but the Jaguar electric E-Type Zero, which costs about $400,000.That kind of ride requires I.P.O. money. So, fellow insider, here’s my plan.I formulated it with invaluable help from Eric Dezenhall. He runs Dezenhall Resources, which, among other things, does crisis management. In an email, I told him that my life is an unmanaged crisis, so I need advice if I am to build a future in his field.His response was promising: “You do realize that the whole discipline is a farce, don’t you?” That convinced me that crisis management would be a good fit.He added: “All you need is a sport jacket and a cliché (such as ‘Get ahead of the story,’ a great-sounding phrase that has no meaning.)”This was getting better and better. As a veteran journalist, clichés are my métier. And, as it happens, I own a sport jacket. There are some moth holes, but I’ve gotten pretty good at using a felt-tip pen to match the jacket color with the lining. Mr. Dezenhall was impressed by my inventive use of the felt-tip pen. That, in itself, “is crisis management,” he said.But he cautioned that crisis management is no longer a matter of simply altering perceptions so that a bad situation looks like something good. “What people think we’re going to say is, ‘We didn’t dump PCBs in the river, we’re shampooing the fish!’ and people will say, ‘Ooh, that’s good,’” he said. But, no. That’s old thinking, he said. His trade has evolved.Instead of just changing perceptions, he said, the great crisis managers provide “operational solutions” that address root causes. That way, he said, a company can transcend the fickle and uncontrollable emotions that dominate the 24-hour news cycles and waves of Twitter outrage.So he would not, for example, advise the chief executive of Boeing to go on a televised apology tour for  two recent crashes and the loss of hundreds of lives. (And, in fact, the company’s public response has been notably muted.) These days, he said, such gestures are instantly deemed inadequate. Instead, he said, it’s better to help companies actually fix their problems, which will do more to vindicate them than any snappy patter.That sounded hard.“What you’re saying,” I said, “sounds like it takes actual management ability.” I was beginning to despair. And that’s when the thunderbolt hit me: I could work the other side of the market. Crisis creation!I’d ferret out dire problems and make them much worse. Corporate executives already do that routinely, of course; I mean, just look at the series of apologies from Mark Zuckerberg over … well, almost everything. But hotshot executives have been calling those problems “mistakes.” I’d call them “my strategy.”Mr. Dezenhall ran with the idea: He said I could get paid by short sellers, or work directly with him to concoct scandals that expose companies to reputational crises, which he — and I — would be paid handsomely to relieve. Most of the time, we’d do nothing but wait for the situation to resolve itself and celebrate our success.Ideally, he said, we would cause problems that look like random events and that don’t besmirch the character of the company. He pointed to a spate of syringes found in Pepsi cans in the ’90s. (The Pepsi problem, which I covered a lifetime ago, earning mere workingman’s wages, turned out to be a hoax, with a splash of copycat effect.)Our corporate slogan would be this: Plant a problem, find the problem, claim to fix the problem. All in a profitable day’s work.“The future is in crisis creation!” he said. “I am happy to secretly finance this, and we’ll work together, and hopefully we’ll be on the Forbes 400 list in a few years.”It sounded exciting. It sounded like big money. Also, it sounded like he was joking. Unfortunately, he was. He turned out to be one of those people burdened with a sense of ethics and even a conscience.I need another partner.It could be you! This is a can’t-miss opportunity: We’ll capture a unicorn, throw it into crisis, and reap unfathomable rewards.It will definitely happen, though for now, I’ll keep my day job: describing crises without capitalizing on them.If I save my pennies, who knows? I might be able to get a new sport coat.John Schwartz is a New York Times reporter and author of “This Is the Year I Put My Financial Life in Order.” Follow him on Twitter: @jswatzAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byThe digital world is not designed to keep women safe. New regulations should be.By Emily ChangMs. Chang, an anchor at Bloomberg TV, is the author of “Brotopia.”Like too many women, I’ve been harassed online. The harasser described in explicit detail how he intended to violate me, though somehow his threats didn’t violate Twitter’s terms of service. Twitter, despite my repeated reports, did nothing. So I did. I gradually tightened my privacy settings across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. I mostly stopped sharing personal, nonwork-related updates and deleted photos of my children; I haven’t posted new pictures for more than a year.I’m a tech journalist, so perhaps I am extra-sensitive to the dangers of the internet. But my concerns are widely shared by other women.Several studies have found that women are more concerned about privacy risks online than men and are more likely to keep their profiles private and delete unwanted contacts. Female Italian college students are less likely to share their political views and relationship status than men and are more concerned about risks posed by other users and third parties. Norwegian women post fewer selfies than Norwegian men.In other words, digital privacy is a women’s issue. We just don’t think about it that way, or discuss it that way. Of course, privacy is a concern for everyone, but this is also an issue, like health care, on which women have a particular view. Women know, for example, what consent really means. It’s not scrolling through seemingly endless “terms of service” and then checking a box. Online consent, just as it is with our bodies, should be clear, informed and a requirement for online platforms. These views are shaped by the reality that women experience the internet differently, just as the experience of walking down a dark alley, or even a busy street, is different for women than it is for men. One Pew study found that women are far more likely to be sexually harassed online and describe these interactions as extremely upsetting. The Department of Justice reports that about 75 percent of the victims of stalking and cyberstalking are women. And so women look over our shoulders online, just as we do in real life.It isn’t just that real-life harassment also shows up online, it’s that the internet isn’t designed for women, even when the majority of users of some popular applications and platforms are women. In fact, some features of digital life have been constructed, intentionally or not, in ways that make women feel less safe.For example, you can’t easily use Facebook’s WhatsApp messaging service without a phone number, which many women don’t want to share. Facebook’s chief executive, Mark Zuckerberg, has promised to build encrypted communication into all its platforms. Just as important is giving users the option to make their messages disappear, so that if a hostile ex somehow got into your phone there would be nothing to see. Even well-meaning efforts at transparency don’t always work that way for women. Lyft’s car pool service shares the registered names of passengers with everyone else in the car. The first name of an incoming passenger flashes in lights across the dashboard, a feature intended to let riders know they are in the right car. A privacy researcher told me that she once jumped into a Lyft shared ride wearing a sweatshirt with her company’s logo. The next day, she received an email from a male passenger saying, “I found you!” Clearly, he had been able to use her first name and the name of her company to track her down online. What he may have thought was cute, she thought was creepy. “Do I have any control over this interaction?” the researcher asked. “You want control over the self you’re putting online, just like you want control over your body.” Note to Lyft: Some passengers would be safer if they were anonymous.With Congress considering whether to draft new privacy regulations, it is important that the specific concerns of women be taken into account now, while the rules are being debated.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]California’s new privacy law is a case in point: It is a bold piece of legislation, but it falls short for women. In the event of a data breach, for example, consumers in California will have the right to sue if certain kinds of personally identifying information, like Social Security numbers or driver’s license numbers, are compromised. But that may not include material like intimate emails or explicit photos. The current iteration of the law is so murky that it’s not clear whether Jennifer Lawrence, the actress whose nude photos were stolen from her iCloud account in 2014 and made public, would have a case against Apple if a similar incident occurred after the law goes into effect next year.California’s “right to be forgotten” also doesn’t go as far as Europe’s new privacy legislation, the most sweeping data reform in history. Under the California law, consumers have the right to delete information they personally provide to companies. But if someone else — say, an unhappy ex — posted something about me online, I would not be able to get that taken down. Under Europe’s new law, though, I would at least be able to request such a post be removed. Although women’s groups have defended privacy as it pertains to abortion, they haven’t yet broadly taken up the issue of digital privacy. Among the few to do so publicly is a grass-roots effort called Catalina’s List, a backer of the California law. “Anything that gives big business an upper hand on individual choices is corrupting the idea of personal choice, freedom and privacy,” a co-founder of Catalina’s List, Bobbi Jo Chavarria, told me. Weaker federal privacy legislation could eventually override the California law. Amazon, Facebook, Google and Microsoft all contributed money to groups opposing the California law, and last year these companies and Apple spent more than $64 million lobbying Congress on privacy and other issues. Tech companies are pushing for what they want; as the research shows, that’s not necessarily what women want.So what can Americans do? First, we must elect more women to positions of power who can help write privacy legislation. I don’t think it’s a coincidence that two of the top digital policymakers in Europe are women, including Margrethe Vestager, the European Union’s competition commissioner, and Elizabeth Denham, Britain’s information commissioner.The law, of course, will never be as fast as tech companies. They should build products and services that respect privacy by design. To do that, these companies need to hire and consult more women. Women hold just 25 percent of jobs across the tech industry and an even smaller percentage of prime engineering roles.Most important, all of us must start thinking about privacy as a feminist issue. We cannot wait for women’s concerns to be addressed. The stakes for us are far too high.Emily Chang (@emilychangtv) is an anchor at Bloomberg TV and the author of “Brotopia.”Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Although the California connections run deep throughout the sprawling college admissions scandal, the complex federal case is now playing out in Boston. My colleague, Kate Taylor, has been covering the court proceedings. Here, she reports on the latest: In a coup for prosecutors and possible bad news for other defendants in the sweeping college admissions fraud investigation, one of the parents charged in the case, Davina Isackson of Hillsborough, Calif., has agreed to plead guilty and to cooperate with the government, according to a person with knowledge of the case.Two other parents have said so far that they intend to plead guilty, and more will probably follow in the coming days. But Ms. Isackson’s agreement to cooperate is significant. Ms. Isackson and her husband, Bruce, a real estate developer, were accused of conspiring with William Singer, the college consultant at the center of the case, to bribe athletics officials in order to secure their daughters’ admission to U.C.L.A. and U.S.C. as athletic recruits.Prosecutors also accused them of paying Mr. Singer so that a proctor could correct their younger daughter’s answers on her ACT exam. The prosecutors have said that the Isacksons paid Mr. Singer a total of $600,000.[Catch up on all of The Times’s coverage here.]Mr. Singer has pleaded guilty to racketeering and other charges.The agreement to cooperate means that Ms. Isackson will share what she knows about the roles that officials at U.C.L.A. and U.S.C. played in the scheme and, if their cases go to trial, could testify against them. It also puts pressure on other parents charged in the recruitment scheme; if Ms. Isackson testifies that she believes her actions were wrong, it makes it harder for others to say that they thought that they were simply making innocent donations.One unusual aspect of the Isacksons’ case is that, according to the charging documents, their older daughter, Lauren, who was admitted to U.C.L.A. as a soccer recruit despite not being a top player, was required to participate on the team as a student-athlete for a year. She is listed on the 2017 roster as a midfielder. Most students involved in the case did not actually play on the teams they had been recruited for.Prosecutors say that, after Lauren Isackson was provisionally admitted to U.C.L.A., Mr. Singer directed $100,000 to a sports marketing company controlled by Jorge Salcedo, the former head men’s soccer coach at U.C.L.A. The government has charged Mr. Salcedo with conspiracy to commit racketeering, and he has pleaded not guilty.Davina Isackson could shed light on whether the coaches of the women’s soccer team were also in on the scheme. Amanda Cromwell, the head coach of women’s soccer at U.C.L.A. since 2013, did not respond to messages.Both Davina and Bruce Isackson will plead guilty to conspiracy to commit mail fraud and honest services mail fraud, according to the person with knowledge of the case. Mr. Isackson will also plead guilty to money laundering conspiracy and conspiracy to defraud the United States.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• President Trump visited Calexico on Friday to continue to make his case that there’s a crisis on the border and that the country is full. [The New York Times]• Kirstjen Nielsen, the secretary of Homeland Security, recently conceded that the president’s focus on the wall was, partly, a stunt. On Sunday, she resigned. [The New York Times]• Meanwhile, migrants who fled their Central American home countries in hopes of getting asylum in the U.S. are waiting in Mexico under a newly expanded Trump administration policy. [The New York Times]•Sheriff Alex Villanueva of Los Angeles County has reinstated at least six deputies who were previously let go, including one who was accused of assaulting a woman and lying about it. The rehires have drawn scrutiny to a sheriff who’s been on the job for just a few months. [The Los Angeles Times]• Kimberly Sue Endicott, a tourist from California who was kidnapped with her safari guide in Uganda, has been freed. [The New York Times]• TV writers and agents extended negotiations in a long-running dispute, staving off a potentially major disruption of the entertainment industry. Writers say that in the streaming era, agencies have made moves to enrich themselves at creators’ expense. [The New York Times]• “Every Democrat who wants to unseat President Trump now must figure out where they stand on the death penalty.” Thanks to Gov. Gavin Newsom’s move to stop executions in California, the debate about capital punishment has shifted. [The New York Times]• The Times published a six-month investigation into the Murdoch family and its globe-spanning Fox media empire. Here are the top takeaways. [The New York Times]• Three blocks from Mark Zuckerberg’s $10 million Tudor lives Jake Orta, who makes a living picking through the Facebook founder’s trash. It’s yet another example of the wide divides that separate San Francisco’s residents. [The New York Times]• A dormant debate has emerged over whether a 1,600-square-foot mural in a San Francisco high school is offensive or a historically relevant piece worth preserving. The Depression-era painting, “Life of Washington,” depicts the role of the nation’s first president in slavery and the deaths of American Indians during Westward Expansion. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• A columnist argues that under Mayor Eric Garcetti’s leadership, Los Angeles’s economy is booming, beating out New York and Chicago according to an array of measures. [Bloomberg]Coachella starts this weekend, which means Daniel Moon will probably be very busy over the next few days.He’s the L.A.-based hair colorist who’s hand-painted the heads of celebrities like Kanye West, Katy Perry and Miley Cyrus neon and candy hues. Madonna once told him he made her feel like a Basquiat.Mr. Moon got his start bleaching the hair of his wrestling teammates in high school as a way to make them stand out. Later, after a stint in the Marines that ended in 2001, he apprenticed at high-end salons.Now, he has his own place.Mr. Moon told The Times that he likes working with clients who are as open to getting out there as he is.“Everybody is in a really good head space when I show up,” he said. “They’re like, ‘All right, dude, what you got?’”California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" work FriendDon’t worry about your lurky, stalky colleague. Worry about Mark Zuckerberg.CreditCreditEmily Simms for The New York TimesSupported byBy Katy LedererSend questions about the office, money, careers and work-life balance to workfriend@nytimes.com. Include your name and location, even if you want them withheld. Letters may be edited.I do not get along with one of my colleagues. We do not talk unless it’s work-related. I have tried to be friendly, but after a few years of working with him, the relationship is nonexistent.Recently, I see that he is a frequent viewer of my social media posts. However, he does not follow me, which means he takes the time out of his day to search for my account. This bothers me because if he can’t at least say hi, then why take an interest in my personal life? I do not want to make my account private simply because of him, as I’ve found a lot of value in keeping it public.This morning, we passed each other in the hallway again, without saying a word, and his gaze turned away from me even though I smiled and acknowledged his presence. I really feel like saying something to him about his after-work lurking. Should I?— AnonymousDon’t make your account private simply because of him. Make your account private simply because of yourself. Better yet, just delete the app from all of your devices.Because look, here’s the thing: If you think your creepy friend at work is bad, think about Mark Zuckerberg. Now there’s a corporate backstabber who surveils everybody’s everything in an icky, lurky sort of way. In fact, he not only surveils everybody’s everything, but he monetizes the ability of total spies like Cambridge Analytica to surveil everybody’s everything.It’s understandable for you to be focused on the actual, real-life creepazoid you pass in the hallway every day. But consider the possibility that less identifiable corporate climbers and glad-handers also pose a threat. Your “friends” on social media could at any moment mob you and destroy your life forever. Or an app could track you even while you sleep.The admonition to “keep your friends close and your enemies closer” has come down through the ages to us blockheads for a reason. In the case of your co-worker: If you feel unsafe, you should of course inform H.R. immediately. Otherwise, I suggest you propose a work lunch or a tea and try one more time to establish a superficial relationship with this person.But before you do any of that: Get off social media! And if you choose to stay on: Remember that you’re always being watched.A few months ago, I started a new job at a small company, with a leadership role. I’m feeling as if I am making a lot of positive changes and contributions to the operation and culture of the company, and generally like my co-workers and many aspects of the culture.However, I’ve been blindsided by a major issue. It’s been abundantly clear since my first week that one of the two heads of the firm is an alcoholic. He’s displayed inappropriate behavior in the workplace, and regularly drinks heavily at work — even drinking steadily through presentations and new hire interviews.As someone senior, but not an owner, in the company, I’m unsure of how to cope. There is of course no supervisor to report his behavior to, and his co-head is dealing with a long-term personal issue that makes approaching him inappropriate.I’ve seen a lot of addiction in family and friends, and I know that this is an issue that won’t resolve until he himself recognizes the issue and decides to change. I’m also loath to re-enter the job market. I’d like to help right the ship as much as possible until at least one, or both, of the C.E.O.s can get back to more stable footing.— L., VirginiaThe definition of codependency is excessive reliance on others, particularly those who require a lot of support, for a sense of approval and identity. You are investing far too much in the people and the culture of this job. Step back: Is this job good for you? Will it look good on a résumé? Are you making a good salary? Are you gaining valuable experience? Once the answer to any of these questions is “no,” start looking for another job, even if the market is a special kind of hell.Emotional distress is also worth considering, but you can reduce it in this case by very actively stepping back. As you wisely intuit, you’re not going to fix anything at all. As for coping directly with a boss who is an alcoholic: I might suggest keeping a journal documenting interactions that you have with him. It’s never a bad idea to cover your own derrière for when the lawsuits start to fly.I had an assistant several years ago who worked out fine until she quit and then sued for overtime or some other nonexistent claim. It settled with no money changing hands. This week, I ran into her husband on a flight, and he was extra friendly, wanted to talk, etc. I know he helped her on that bogus claim and I just didn’t feel like being friendly to him. It was an awkward situation in a public setting. Was I correct to blow him off?— SeattleIt’s always better to be friendly than unfriendly. I don’t know if you know this, but smiling is actually an animal behavior that signals nonaggression. To smile is to signal “I don’t intend to hurt you.” The thing about smiling and signaling nonaggression is that, when it’s time to stab a person in the back, you will catch them completely off-guard! And if you have no intention of stabbing them in the back, well, they will think that you are really nice. Either way, there is an upside. You could even call it a “win-win.”What do you do when a co-worker takes credit for one of your ideas?— J.W., New YorkNever ever tell this co-worker one of your ideas again. Don’t bother trying to reclaim the credit. You’ll just look spiteful. Move on with another idea, and keep your eye out for a good opportunity to get even.Katy Lederer is the author of three books of poems and a memoir. Write to her at workfriend@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Wednesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump said he may let his March 2 deadline for reaching a trade agreement with China “slide for a little while” if the two countries are near a deal by then.Washington and Beijing are deep in negotiations. “In the talks this week, Chinese and U.S. negotiators are focusing on producing a broad outline of a trade agreement for their presidents to clinch at a possible summit,” the WSJ reports. “Officials holding trade and economic portfolios are seeking to narrow the still-substantial gap between the concessions China is willing to offer and what Mr. Trump’s administration will accept.”Mr. Trump wants to maintain momentum. The president characterized those discussions as “going well,” according to Deborah B. Solomon of the NYT, and said he thought the U.S. had a chance “to make a real deal.” He added that he wanted “a real deal, not just a deal that looks cosmetically good for a year.”But any pact will face a big obstacle: Chinese commitment. A history of broken policy promises between China and the rest of the world hangs over U.S. negotiators, Keith Bradsher of the NYT writes. So they want to ensure that “any deal they strike has teeth if Beijing does not live up to its obligations.” One proposed solution: “a mechanism that would automatically raise tariffs on Chinese goods if its exports to the United States keep rising.”The British prime minister reportedly plans to leave a parliamentary vote on her Brexit deal to the last moment, then force politicians to pick between it or a long delay for Britain’s exit from the E.U.That revelation was overheard in a Brussels bar. According to the British broadcaster ITV News, one of its reporters heard Oliver Robbins, one of Mrs. May’s top aides, discussing the plans in a hotel bar. “The issue is whether Brussels is clear on the terms of extension,” Mr. Robbins reportedly said. “In the end they will probably just give us an extension.”Mrs. May previously opposed a delay. She has insisted that lawmakers have a choice between her deal or no deal. “An option to extend for a longer period would just continue the uncertainty,” she told business leaders in a conference call yesterday.The comments could spell trouble for her. They may undermine her efforts to muster enough support in Parliament for her deal. Mrs. May’s office had no comment on the remarks attributed to Mr. Robbins.More Brexit news: The Bank of England’s governor, Mark Carney, said that the potential economic harm from Brexit shows that trade uncertainty can be more damaging than a financial crisis. Economists say that the British economy could improve if a deal is reached. Ford reportedly told Mrs. May that it is preparing alternative production sites outside Britain as a result of Brexit.The carriers’ C.E.O.s are scheduled to appear on Capitol Hill this week to defend T-Mobile’s proposed $26 billion acquisition of Sprint. Their first stop is the House Committee on Energy and Commerce today, where they’ll face Democrats who are increasingly skeptical about letting the nation’s third- and fourth-biggest carriers combine.What to expect: John Legere of T-Mobile will repeat his claim that merging the two companies would create a stronger rival to Verizon and AT&T. “I want to reiterate unequivocally that prices will go down and customers will get more for less,” he told Bloomberg in an interview. And he’ll emphasize the combined company’s ability to roll out 5G wireless service, playing off fears that the U.S. may fall behind China in that area.But lawmakers have issues with the deal. Democrats think a merger would actually increase prices for consumers, as well as bring job cuts. Some lawmakers also contend that promises to increase rural wireless broadband are empty. And some critics say that dozens of stays by Mr. Legere at President Trump’s Washington hotel since the deal was announced may have been improper.A political caveat: Though Democratic opposition to the deal appears to be growing — nine senators called for the deal to be blocked — Congress doesn’t get a say. It can only apply pressure to the Justice Department and the F.C.C. to block it.Still, the telecoms aren’t resting easy. Bloomberg notes that the spread between T-Mobile’s offer price and Sprint’s stock price has grown since December, suggesting that investors think the deal’s chances of winning approval are getting worse.The Trump administration is moving closer to barring telecom companies in the U.S. from using Chinese equipment while building next-generation wireless networks, Julian E. Barnes of the NYT writes.• “The executive order, which has been under discussion for months, is aimed largely at preventing Chinese telecom firms like Huawei from gaining access to the fifth-generation — or 5G — wireless networks that companies are beginning to build in the United States.”• “President Trump has been briefed on the proposed ban, which would prevent the use of equipment from ‘adversarial powers,’ and the order could be issued in the coming days, American government and industry officials said.”The case against a ban: Robert Hannigan, a former director of the British intelligence agency G.C.H.Q., argues in the FT that blanket bans on Chinese tech “make no sense.” Lawmakers, he says, should “base decisions on Chinese involvement in future telecoms on technical expertise and rational assessment of risk, rather than political fashion or trade wars.”The former Nissan chairman, who’s still detained in Japan, has replaced his legal team — perhaps in a bid to try a more aggressive strategy.Who’s out: Motonari Otsuru, a former prosecutor familiar with the tactics employed in Japanese courtrooms.Who’s in: Junichiro Hironaka, whose nickname in Japan is “the innocence contractor.” He has successfully defended government officials against corruption charges and a prominent businessman against accusations of insider dealing.Potentially behind the change: The FT notes that “Mr. Otsuru at times appeared to defend the practices of Japanese prosecutors and the way that suspects are interrogated without the presence of their lawyers.”More Nissan news: The French government reportedly pressed the Japanese carmaker about merging with its corporate sibling, Renault, but was rebuffed. And the company reported a 45 percent drop in third-quarter earnings yesterday.The Chronicle of Philanthropy’s list of the 50 most generous donors to charitable causes shows that they jointly gave $7.8 billion in 2018. That’s impressive — until you compare it to 2017, when donors gave $14.7 billion.Topping the list were Jeff and MacKenzie Bezos, who gave $2 billion. Michael Bloomberg was a distant second, having given $767 million. Other notable donors included Blackstone’s Steve Schwarzman, Mark and Priscilla Zuckerberg, and Bill and Melinda Gates.The drop-off in giving was stark. Theodore Schleifer of Recode points out that Mr. and Ms. Gates gave $138 million to their foundation last year, compared with $4.8 billion in 2017. The Zuckerbergs donated $200 million last year, down from $2 billion in 2017.The big picture: As Mr. Schleifer notes, this shows “how a few decisions by the country’s wealthiest Americans can totally change the portrait of big-dollar philanthropy.” The drop in charitable giving, he adds, comes at a bad time, “given the louder conversation in the U.S. about the responsibilities of billionaires.”Some of America’s largest news publishers are unhappy with the financial terms of a news subscription service that Apple plans to unveil later this year, according to the WSJ, citing unnamed sources.• “The service, described by industry executives as a ‘Netflix for news,’ would allow users to read an unlimited amount of content from participating publishers for a monthly fee.”• BuzzFeed reports, citing anonymous sources, that it is expected to be unveiled on March 25.• But “in its pitch to some news organizations, the Cupertino, Calif., company has said it would keep about half of the subscription revenue from the service,” according to the WSJ.• “Another concern for some publishers is that they likely wouldn’t get access to subscriber data, including credit-card information and email addresses.”• “The New York Times and the Washington Post are among the major outlets that so far haven’t agreed to license their content to the service, in part because of concerns over the proposed terms.”The former N.J. governor weighed in on the presidential race at a party for his new book last night. (It was hosted by the hedge fund magnate Steve Cohen at his Midtown Manhattan penthouse, which is up for sale for $45 million.) Here were some of Mr. Christie’s observations:• He called the Democratic senators Kamala Harris and Cory Booker, both of whom are black, “articulate.” Of Ms. Harris, he said, “She presents herself pretty well.” Of potential supporters of Mr. Booker, he said, “Will they love him for the second speech, third speech and fourth speech?”• He wondered of Joe Biden: “Is he going to be the adult in the room or is he going to be crazy Uncle Joe?”• Of Senator Amy Klobuchar, he said, “Her entire rollout gets stepped on by a whole bunch of her former staff saying that she’s a monster, and screams and yells and throws stuff at people and is a lunatic to work for,” adding, “I don’t see her being in the right spot.”At the party: Gary Cohn, the former Trump economic adviser and Goldman Sachs president; John Flannery, who was ousted as G.E.’s chief executive last fall; and Douglas Haynes, who resigned as president of Mr. Cohen’s Point72 hedge fund.Activision Blizzard plans to lay off 8 percent of its workers, or 775 employees, as traditional video game companies struggle to compete with hits like “Fortnite.”Saudi Arabia’s sovereign wealth fund, the Public Investment Fund, is opening an office in San Francisco to help strike more tech deals.Deals• Amazon and GM are reportedly in talks to invest in Rivian, a start-up that plans to build electric pickup trucks, at a valuation of up to $2 billion. (Reuters)• Lyft’s founders are planning to keep control of the ride-hailing company after it goes public, despite owning just 10 percent of its shares. (WSJ)• Ellie Mae, a mortgage software company, agreed to sell itself to the investment firm Thoma Bravo for about $3.7 billion. (Reuters)• France is calling for an overhaul of E.U. merger rules. (FT)Politics and policy• President Trump says he’s “not happy” with Congress’s deal to fund border security, but declined to say whether he would veto it. Allies predict the president will ultimately approve it. (NYT, Politico)• A new Prudential survey shows how the 35-day government shutdown hurt federal workers. One example: 62 percent depleted most of their emergency savings. (Axios)• Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, proposed raising taxes on capital gains to discourage companies from stock buybacks. (CNBC)Trade• How President Trump’s trade war has hurt American whiskey. (NYT)• China has held talks with Venezuela to protect its investments there. (WSJ)• Tesla has been importing Model 3s into China ahead of the March 2 deadline for U.S.-China trade talks. (SCMP)Tech• In an awkward Twitter-based interview, the social network’s C.E.O., Jack Dorsey, said that his company and its peers haven’t done enough to fight abuse. (Wired, Reuters)• Why Amazon is caught in an unexpected brawl in New York about its new campus. Also: The company is now raising prices at Whole Foods, having slashed them when it first took over. (NYT, WSJ)• The Pentagon’s new A.I. strategy document, released the day after the White House unveiled a poorly received directive on the topic, reads in part like a pitch deck to Silicon Valley. (Fortune, Axios)• Governor Gavin Newsom of California has proposed a “digital dividend” that would allow consumers to take a slice of Big Tech’s profits. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• The Fed’s chairman, Jerome Powell, says that U.S. economic expansion has been uneven. (WSJ)• A lawsuit by CBS shareholders accuses current and former executives of insider trading because they sold stock ahead of disclosures about sexual harassment allegations against Les Moonves. (WSJ)• The Mexican crime lord known as El Chapo was convicted yesterday after a three-month trial in New York. (NYT)• The national debt has risen above $22 trillion for the first time. (AP)• Americans are highly optimistic about their finances right now. Perhaps they shouldn’t be. (Barron’s)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.An earlier version of this article reported incorrectly on charitable donations made by Bill and Melinda Gates last year. Mr. and Ms. Gates personally, not the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, gave $138 million, not $150 million.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Yesterday was another busy news day in California. A historically wet winter helped officially end a more than seven-year drought, and fallout from the college admissions fraud investigation continued to spread: Students spurned by universities allegedly involved have begun to sue, saying they unwittingly participated in a process rigged against them.[Here are answers to all your questions about the scandal.]But today, we wanted to dig into the Los Angeles contemporary art scene. Jason Farago, a critic for The New York Times, recently made his way west for a piece exploring L.A.’s place in a global art ecosystem. He wrote about how he approached an expansive landscape: It’s almost a rite of passage for a New York Times art critic to be sent to Los Angeles to take the temperature of the city’s museums and galleries, and to pronounce whether the second-largest city in America has “caught up” to our hometown. As long ago as 1956, one of my predecessors wrote that “spectacular myths hover with the smog over Los Angeles obscuring the considerable progress this city has made in terms of the arts during the last few years.”So when my editor and I sat down to plan my recent story on contemporary art in Los Angeles, timed to the West Coast debut of London’s Frieze Art Fair, we set ourselves some ground rules. No clichés of L.A. as a dream factory of endless sunny days. No cooing over allegedly cheaper rent, which has become a myth of its own. Even the go-to jokes about traffic no longer made sense now that the New York subway has buckled into chronic dysfunction.Over a week in Los Angeles — plus a few days in Palm Springs, scoping out the sculpture of the Desert X biennial — my priority was to assess the city on its own terms. I visited just about every museum and gallery from Brentwood to Boyle Heights.I had coffees with museum directors and beers with recent M.F.A.s, whose local concerns dovetailed with global artistic ambitions. Plunked in the middle of it all were two new art fairs — Frieze, held on the Paramount backlot, and Felix, staged in the guest rooms and cabanas of a Hollywood hotel — that were the first to draw a global audience to Los Angeles after years of false starts. (My colleague Jori Finkel had a report from the fairs.)Surveying any city’s art scene, let alone one as diverse as L.A.’s, is a game of omissions. With more space I’d have covered stalwart galleries like Regen Projects, in Hollywood; newer ones like Château Shatto, downtown; and nonprofits like Art + Practice, Mark Bradford’s space in South L.A.The collector base is growing, though it remains small relative to the city’s wealth. Alternative spaces like the Underground Museum, the Cabin, and Bel Ami are doing very good work.The city’s boosters want critics to tell you that Los Angeles is now the center of the contemporary art scene. But the truth is that no single city can lead the way in producing the art of our time. Los Angeles, like every large city, is now a constituent of a global art system, where none of us is insulated from the flows of money and images. That may not be a satisfying conclusion, but at least it gives us the space to understand this wonderful city as it really is.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• Who deserves Pacific Gas & Electric’s assets: Employees seeking bonuses or wildfire victims? It’s a question complicated by the typical corporate bankruptcy process, which often leaves some parties at a big disadvantage. [The New York Times]• Amid mounting controversies and a criminal investigation, two top Facebook executives are leaving, including Chris Cox, who is a member of Mark Zuckerberg’s inner circle. [The New York Times]• Still, Facebook’s daylong malfunction this week was a reminder of how many lives the company touches on a daily basis, and of the fragility of the internet. [The New York Times]• A new Stanford study looked at 100 million traffic stops. It found that black and Latino drivers were stopped more often based on less evidence. [NBC News]• After a 22nd horse died since Dec. 26, officials at Santa Anita Park banned drugs and whips. The spike in fatalities highlights horse racing’s lack of meaningful oversight, and the park’s owners said leaders needed to do better if they want the sport to survive. [The New York Times]• U.S.C. has in recent decades tried hard to overcome its reputation as a school for wealthy kids, investing in a strong athletic program and high-profile academics. But a spate of leadership failures and scandals — and now, its place in the F.B.I.’s college admissions investigation — have left Trojan family members wondering about the school’s future. [The New York Times]• Near the end of a weird week for Tesla, Elon Musk unveiled the company’s latest Model Y, a “baby S.U.V.” Yes, that means Tesla has models S, 3, X and Y, and yes, that was intentional. (Ford holds the trademark for “Model E.”) [Wired]• Each tech wave has been fueled by so-called mafias — cohorts of former colleagues who support one another’s work and fund one another’s projects. So what will a future built by Airbnb and Uber mafias look like? And who will be excluded? [The New York Times]• A photojournalist who’s followed Jordan Bell through his rookie season talked with the Warriors big man about some of the moments he captured in this neat visual project. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Everything you ever wanted to know about why Sacramento has so many orange trees. (A perfect Mediterranean climate helps a lot. Also you can pick your neighbor’s fruit if it’s hanging over into your yard, but you should probably ask first, just in case.) [The Sacramento Bee]If you live in San Diego, consider us jealous. Not only can you make a (relatively) quick trip to check out Estacion Federal — the hip Tijuana commons its developer recently described as “part artistic community, part commuter waypoint and part gastro-utopia” — but you’re also in a good position to check out El Jardín. That’s Tejal Rao’s recommendation this week:I’ve been spending time in San Diego lately, and reviewed one of the standouts for this week’s Food section: El Jardín, which opened last year in a new mixed-use development on a former Navy training base. And the chef, Claudette Zepeda-Wilkins, is a local, a border kid who grew up splitting her time between Mexico and the United States.Her menu celebrates the range, sophistication and diversity of Mexican cuisine, bringing together dishes that don’t usually live under the same roof, like giant Sonoran hot dogs, Yucatecan-style octopus cooked with sour oranges, and the fava-bean-filled tlacoyos of Mexico City.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.An earlier version of a picture caption with this article misidentified the title of an artwork. It is “Ground Transposition,” not “Ground Transportation.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCritic’s NotebookBy Amanda HessI started noticing it a few years ago: Seemingly every young person on the internet was selling something. Not in the way that we’re all selling ourselves now, cultivating our personal brands on social media. They were selling actual stuff. Shipping hoverboards from China and unloading them in their American high schools. Running parody Twitter accounts that fed into viral ad networks. Posting sponsored content on Instagram for pocket money and freebies.Occasionally these youthful businesses evidenced a casual relationship with grift. The hoverboards literally blew up. The Twitter accounts stole jokes from struggling comics. Teenage influencers started concocting fake brand deals so they could appear worthy of corporate sponsorship.The sprites behind the schemes could come across as craven; an online crew of viral marketers referred to non-entrepreneurial peers as “peasants.” But most of them seemed sincere. They wanted to change the world, and they believed that the way to do that was to start their own businesses. Immediately. If corners were cut along the way, they were cut honestly. They were just kids.I’ve been thinking of them as last year’s “summer of scam” has extended into a never-ending, all-weather “scam season.” We are held rapt by tales of big-time millennial grifters, entrepreneurs whose dizzy rises are rivaled only by their disastrous ends. Among them is Billy McFarland (born in 1991), the impresario who dreamed up the doomed Bahamas-based Fyre music festival; Elizabeth Holmes (b. 1984), creator of the at-home blood-testing service Theranos, which was once valued at more than $9 billion but never really worked; and Anna Delvey (b. 1991), the so-called SoHo Scammer, who is said to have passed herself off as a German heiress in a bid to build a plush Manhattan arts club named after herself.Now their tales are fueling a genre of grifter-related entertainment. Earlier this month, Hulu and Netflix dropped rival streaming documentaries on Fyre. Soon HBO will air a documentary about Holmes directed by Alex Gibney, while ABC News has its own documentary and a podcast, too. An Anna Delvey show written by Shonda Rhimes is on its way to Netflix.Stories of scammers are reliably captivating. Mark Twain’s fiction held a soft spot for the flimflam man. The terms grifter and scam have their beginnings in the carnival circuit of the early 20th century, and scam is the root of the term scamp — as in, lovable rogue. There’s a reason we call them con artists.These people have always exploited a certain proximity to America’s most storied figures. “The Inventor,” HBO’s Theranos documentary, draws comparisons between Holmes and one of her idols, Thomas Edison, who may have been better at cultivating his public image as an inventor than he was at actually inventing. The math behind the American dream — a nobody, combined with pure grit, transforms into a somebody — is already a reach. The grifter just stretches the concept a little further.But perhaps no moment has been so primed for grift as our current one. As Jia Tolentino wrote in The New Yorker last year: “At some point between the Great Recession, which began in 2008, and the terrible election of 2016, scamming seems to have become the dominant logic of American life.” The mantras of Silicon Valley — Think big! Think different! Move fast and break things! — encourage harebrained scheming. Venture capital requires business ideas to reap more than profits; they must promise explosive growth. And moving fast is presented not as a shortcut to getting rich but a necessary aspect of any successful venture. The grandiose expectations placed on actual children have grown wildly out of proportion with the economic reality into which they’ve been born. Only a scam could bridge the gap.One of the greatest modern scams is the entrepreneurial fetish itself, and its marks are getting younger and younger. Silicon Valley has always romanticized the college dropout, from Gates and Jobs to Zuckerberg and Holmes. (The ABC News projects on Holmes are titled “The Dropout.”) Now a broader effort seeks to enlist children into ventures at an age before their prefrontal cortex is fully formed. In 2017, the magazine Teen Bo$$ debuted to set preteens on the fast track to wealth under the tagline “Dream big & learn fast!” And last year, Entrepreneur magazine ran its own issue on teen titans, featuring a 13-year-old candy C.E.O. on its cover. Her secret? “I just felt like I had nothing to lose.” By the time she was 10, Holmes had decided what she wanted to be when she grew up: “a billionaire.”Meanwhile, the tools of grift have rarely been more attainable. Early chat rooms introduced a generation of kids to the pastime of pretending to be other people online. Now, everyone with a smartphone can create and manipulate images. And in this hyper-visual culture, constructing an image of something can feel like the most important step in conjuring the thing itself. Just ask the Chinese manufacturers that hawk clothes online with images of glamorous magazine spreads, then ship out disfigured imitations to unsuspecting customers.Holmes was obsessed with the image of a finger-prick drop of blood unlocking a wealth of medical information, and many powerful people liked the picture, too. (“The Inventor” makes much of a photo shoot in which Holmes holds a tiny red vial between her fingertips.) The only thing the Fyre Festival did well was create a viral ad featuring famous models cavorting on yachts and swimming with pigs. At some level, we are all growing familiar with this kind of sleight of hand. On Instagram, we are training to create beautiful images of ourselves with no possibility — or really, expectation — that they be replicated in person.McFarland may be the one in prison for fraud, but the most fascinating thing about Fyre was how deep the scam reached. The festival was marketed by Jerry Media, an online advertising agency that began as a popular Instagram account that cribbed other peoples’ memes without credit. It was aggressively promoted by Instagram influencers — those model/advertiser/guru hybrids whose entire project rests on smoke and mirrors. Even the documentaries on the festival seemed compromised. Hulu  paid McFarland for an interview, while Elliot Tebele, the founder of Jerry Media, is an executive producer of the Netflix documentary. It was scams all the way down.And at the top? The closest-held secret of modern scam artists is how woefully unimaginative they really are. Our oversaturated scam culture seems to have produced something new: utterly unappealing con men and women who could not credibly be referred to as “artists” at all.Though the Fyre documentaries are stocked with associates who swear to McFarland’s charm, he appears to have all the appeal of a sentient airport lounge. Holmes, built up as a striking female entrepreneur with a heartfelt personal story, is revealed as stilted and vampiric onscreen; “The Inventor” includes a haunting scene in which she celebrates a company win by dancing robotically to MC Hammer. And since her unmasking, Delvey has been dragged on the internet for her tellingly bad hair.There’s not a lovable scamp or a master chameleon in the bunch. They’re just young people who wanted to make something incredible, failed and couldn’t accept it. In a word, unexceptional. These days, there’s a scammer born every minute.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get it by email.)It’s a grim conundrum plaguing communities throughout the state: Everyone agrees that homelessness is a problem and that shelters and service centers would help get people off the streets. But other residents say they don’t want such facilities to be built anywhere near them.A version of this problem has sprung up in San Francisco — and, because it’s San Francisco, it’s been heightened by the influence of tech money. My colleague Mike Isaac, who covers tech, wrote about the fight:It began as a disagreement between homeowners and the city.By late last week, that disagreement swelled into a full-fledged battle between groups of San Francisco residents over what to do with a center intended to provide shelter and resources for the homeless.The debate is centered around a plan by Mayor London Breed, who has proposed the city should erect a Navigation Center for the homeless on a stretch of vacant land near the city shoreline.The center, which would offer roughly 225 beds and other resources to the homeless, would be situated at Seawall Lot 330, a 2.3 acre parcel currently being used as a parking lot, sitting off the Embarcadero near the Bay Bridge.But a group of homeowners in nearby luxury apartments aren’t having it. Residents in the Rincon Hill and SOMA areas have banded together to oppose the Navigation Center, claiming that it would turn the area into a “dirty, dangerous” neighborhood. Members of the group have flooded into community hearings and meetings to voice concerns.To further the cause, the group started an online crowdfunding page under the name “Safe Embarcadero for All.” The group’s GoFundMe campaign has raised more than $80,000 to hire a lawyer to push back against the city.As news of the GoFundMe hit the internet in a San Francisco Chronicle article last week, other San Francisco residents took umbrage with the group’s goal. William Fitzgerald, a local community activist and supporter of building resource centers for San Francisco’s upward of 7,000 homeless citizens, decided to build his own GoFundMe. Mr. Fitzgerald’s competing campaign, “A Safer Embarcadero for All,” intended to raise funds to support the building of the Navigation Center in the area.Mr. Fitzgerald’s GoFundMe page went up on Thursday. By Friday, the group had raised tens of thousands of dollars, and was steadily gaining more supporters as word of the effort spread virally.Marc Benioff, the tech billionaire and founder of Salesforce, donated $10,000 to Mr. Fitzgerald’s campaign. The co-founders of Twilio matched Mr. Benioff with thousands of their own. Hours later, Jack Dorsey, co-founder of Twitter, donated $25,000 of his own money to the project.The issue is far from settled, as both groups continue to jockey for support both for and against the project. But at least one of them has pulled ahead: By Monday afternoon, the “Safer” campaign had managed to raise $145,000, outraising the opposing campaign by $60,000 in roughly a third of time.(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• “His music, he speaks real facts. He talks about how he grew up. He wanted people to see what he went through, to show people they could change. He was a role model.” Fans showed up at Nipsey Hussle’s Marathon Clothing store in South Los Angeles to join an outpouring of grief over the death of the rapper and entrepreneur. [The New York Times]• Later in the day, at least 10 people were injured in a stampede at a vigil for the rapper. It was unclear what caused people to run. [The New York Times]• Newly released body-camera footage shows Vallejo police officers firing into the car where Willie McCoy appeared to have fallen asleep in a Taco Bell drive-through about 10 seconds after he first stirred. A lawyer for the 20-year-old’s family said they’re planning to sue. “Based on the videos, it looks like the officers violated basic safety principles and made no real efforts to preserve human life,” she said. [The New York Times]• And if you missed it, a legislative fight is looming about whether to make it easier to criminally prosecute officers who use deadly force. [The New York Times]• “The ball is rolling.” Paradise issued its first building permit since last year’s deadly Camp Fire nearly wiped the community off the map. [Merced Sun-Star]• Pacific Gas & Electric is trying to rebuild its leadership structure. But it’s been a bumpy road. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Mark Zuckerberg, in a post on Saturday, called on Congress to regulate Facebook. Here’s why. [The New York Times]• At last, it’s almost worth it for Angelenos to check out the burgeoning food scene in a cramped, dank city on the East Coast once known primarily for the Statue of Liberty and the Mafia, a columnist writes. [The Los Angeles Times]• How sovereign citizens in Southern California helped swindle $1 billion from a government they disavow. [The New York Times]• Why special psychiatric emergency rooms, pioneered in Alameda County, may be better for patients in the grips of a psychiatric episode — and more cost-effective. [Kaiser Health News]• What happens when you try to ride an e-scooter as far as its battery will take you? There’s no force field stopping you. [Gizmodo]Although Stanford’s nickname is “the farm,” Silicon Valley isn’t exactly known as an agricultural wonderland — at least, not anymore.But that’s where one man, C. Todd Kennedy, has quietly taken on a kind of fruit rescue mission, according to Atlas Obscura.He’s the co-founder of Arboreum Company, which sells rare and vintage fruit trees, according to an Atlas Obscura piece. Its website lists dozens of varieties of stone fruits, including 18 kinds of Asian plums with evocative names like “Broken Heart” (sold out) and “Flavor Queen.”As one of the state’s “premier fruit experts, collectors and growers,” the piece says, Mr. Kennedy has also donated genetic material from hundreds of varieties to natural repositories — which, experts said, has helped keep those fruits from disappearing forever.California Today goes live at 6:30 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com. Were you forwarded this email? Sign up for California Today here.Jill Cowan grew up in Orange County, went to school at U.C. Berkeley and has reported all over the state, including the Bay Area, Bakersfield and Los Angeles — but she always wants to see more. Follow along here or on Twitter, @jillcowan.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Dana GoldsteinSAN JOSE, Calif. — Rizi Manzon lives in the heart of Silicon Valley, in a modest-looking neighborhood of garden apartments and one-story houses on small lots. His own home is five minutes from Apple’s headquarters in what is, by some measures, the most expensive housing market in the country. Average rent in Santa Clara County is over $3,500.If Mr. Manzon, a culinary arts teacher at a nearby high school, had to pay market rates for his one-bedroom apartment, housing costs would eat up 75 percent of his $65,000 salary, he estimated.Luckily for him, he pays just $1,450 per month.Mr. Manzon, 38, is getting this bargain only because his employer, the Santa Clara Unified School District, owns his apartment complex and rents to its teachers at below-market rates. It is an uncommon arrangement — employer as landlord — that is starting to catch on elsewhere as school employees say they cannot afford to live comfortably in regions awash in tech dollars.And it is just one of several radical solutions for struggling educators in the nation’s economic boom towns. From San Francisco to Seattle to Denver to Los Angeles, some are spending four hours per day commuting, or have relied on charitable funding for mortgage assistance. While several districts have tried to make it easier for teachers to live where they work, their efforts are not always welcomed by local homeowners, opening up new debates over gentrification and what obligations the expanding tech sector has to the cities that host its offices.The Santa Clara apartments are considered a model by school district officials in San Jose, the large city a few miles southeast. The San Jose Unified School District has its own plan: raze aging school buildings, send their students to new facilities, and turn that land into affordable rental housing for at least 300 teachers and school workers.But in a city that is rolling out the red carpet for Google employees — the City Council recently voted to approve a major land sale to the tech giant — the teacher housing idea has drawn a backlash.Some parents in Almaden Valley, a suburban-style enclave on the outskirts of San Jose, are not eager to see two of their schools, Leland High School and Bret Harte Middle School, relocated about two miles away in order to build affordable rental housing for educators.“They are both very, very high-end schools” with lots of parental involvement, said Greg Braley, a leader of the opposition to the district’s proposal and a resident of the neighborhood. “Honestly, the schools are so good, people pay a premium to live in this area.”Mr. Braley works in finance and sends his own 9-year-old daughter to private school, but said she may attend public school in the future. Rather than disrupting a high-achieving community, he argued, it would make more sense to provide teachers with a housing allowance of some kind — something the district says it cannot afford to do.Hundreds flocked to an October community meeting to vent their frustration with the district’s plan, and over 6,000 people have signed an online petition, started by Mr. Braley, against it. “Low-income housing doesn’t belong in Almaden,” one resident commented on the petition. “This would devalue home prices in the area significantly,” wrote another.The school district, with 30,000 students, is losing one out of every seven teachers each spring. Some high-need students, like those with disabilities, are being taught by long-term substitutes or contractors. Like many other districts across the country with teacher shortages, it has begun recruiting educators from the developing world.Starting salaries for teachers here range between $55,000 and $79,000. That kind of money does not go far in an area where the median home price is over $1 million, and the district cannot easily raise compensation to account for housing costs. Despite being one of the nation’s richest states, California’s  education spending, about $11,000 per student, was slightly below the national average in 2016. Land is the most valuable asset the district has.District-owned housing would have interested Jesse Escobar, 33, an academic counselor at a middle school in San Jose. He and his girlfriend, Shana Riehart, a high school teacher, were priced out of town and moved 25 miles away to Hayward, Calif. Ms. Riehart quit her job to take a position closer to their new home. Traffic means Mr. Escobar’s commute sometimes takes an hour and 45 minutes each way. He said it had been hurtful to hear parents oppose the housing plan for educators.“Instead of saying teachers, if you had said engineers from Google or doctors from Kaiser, would the tone have been different?” Mr. Escobar asked. “Families trust us with their kids from 8 to 3 every day. I don’t know why it wouldn’t be the case that they would trust us in their communities.”Supporters of the housing plan have a long fight ahead. On Election Day, a ballot initiative to approve a city bond that could have helped pay for the proposal fell just short of passing. The plan now needs the approval of the district board of education, and eventually, a property tax assessment would have to pass at the ballot box. It could be a yearslong process, and opponents warn it could cost hundreds of millions of dollars.Stephen McMahon, the district’s deputy superintendent, blamed much of the neighborhood opposition on the stigma against affordable housing.Standing outside of Leland High School, one of the campuses that could be torn down in the proposal, Mr. McMahon said, “They’re closing their eyes and seeing a 10-story apartment complex with people smoking pot on the doorsteps. That’s not at all what we discussed doing out here.”Mr. McMahon said that each of the proposed housing sites would match existing housing stock: high-rise apartments downtown; single-family houses in Almaden Valley. He acknowledged that the school district lacked expertise in real estate, but said partner organizations would be brought on to help.“This isn’t the work we want to do,” Mr. McMahon said. “We have to do the housing thing because not being able to get employees compromises everything we want to do with our instruction and learning.”Other school districts, including San Francisco, Los Angeles, and some in Colorado and North Carolina are trying similar solutions. In Santa Clara, the district-owned apartment where Mr. Manzon lives has a long waiting list of teachers. But even that is not a full solution.Mr. Manzon, a former chef, will have to leave his home in three years, because each resident is allowed to stay in the district apartments only seven years. He is considering leaving teaching — he has received higher-paying offers to work as an executive chef — or moving to Nevada, where much of his family has relocated.There, “my brother was able to purchase a home on a Honda mechanic’s salary,” he said.Teachers who can come up with at least half of a down payment can turn to Landed, a start-up that helps educators buy homes.Holly Gonzalez, 34, a kindergarten teacher in East San Jose, and her husband, Daniel, a school district I.T. specialist, were able to buy a three-bedroom apartment for $610,000 this summer with help from their parents and from Landed. When they sell the home, they will owe Landed 25 percent of any gain in its value. The company is financed partly by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, Mark Zuckerberg’s charitable arm.Ms. Gonzalez, who has two sons, said that she and her husband were grateful, but that they had given up a lot, like a backyard. “To be willing to pay what we paid for this? You have to be desperate,” she said.They remain anxious about their economic future, especially since San Jose’s land sale to Google, which the City Council approved in December over the shouts of anti-gentrification activists, and is expected to bring in 20,000 mostly high-income tech jobs.Gentrification, Ms. Gonzalez said, could push out even more low-income families in her district, and declining school enrollment could mean layoffs for teachers.Supporters of the Google deal, like Mayor Sam Liccardo of San Jose, say the company will help finance affordable housing. As part of the agreement, any new apartment buildings constructed near the campus will set aside a quarter of the units as affordable.Mr. Liccardo said it was unfortunate that anxiety about closing schools had gotten mixed up with the debate over cost of living in the city. But he projected that within a few years, some of the same parents who opposed San Jose Unified’s plan for teachers would grasp the importance of affordable housing.“When people see their own children can no longer afford to live in the community” as young adults, he said, “it will change.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Jill CowanGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)When he took office this year, Gov. Gavin Newsom inherited an expansive, consuming problem. The state doesn’t have enough housing, and what housing it does have is rapidly becoming too expensive for most people who live and work in the state. Legislators have tried to make a dent in various aspects of the crisis. Today, my colleague Jennifer Medina explores how one of Mr. Newsom’s efforts is playing out in a Southern California city. Not too long after he took office, Mr. Newsom, in his State of the State address, called out several cities he said were not doing their fair share to develop more affordable housing. Among them: Montebello, a historic middle class suburb just east of Los Angeles that was once referred to as a Mexican-American Beverly Hills.Just a short drive away from Downtown Los Angeles, Montebello has long attracted government employees and other white-collar workers eager to buy modest single-family homes — a kind of “promised land” for those looking to get out of the city. Today, three-bedroom homes can be found for around $500,000 — a relative bargain compared with much of Los Angeles. So it was, at least in some ways, a bit of an odd choice for the governor’s ire.State officials say the city has done little to keep up with the growing demand, failing to create a clear plan for how it will expand its housing stock. But since the governor’s speech, he’s tried to strike a more conciliatory tone, appearing with Mayor Jack Hadjinian of Montebello after a closed-door meeting with other local government leaders last month.“I’m not mad at him for calling us out,” Mr. Hadjinian said. “We see this as an opportunity.”Juan Rivera, a home-ownership counselor at Montebello Housing Development Corporation, said he had watched the prospects for first-time buyers become increasingly dire.“Affordable housing? There is none,” he said. “I don’t think it’s a unique problem to Montebello, but the opportunities to live here are just fewer and fewer.”But local developers and investors like Robert Tapia say it is the governor who needs to be more open to creative solutions. “He’s fundamentally not understanding how real estate gets done,” he said. “Where do we come up with the land? People keep holding on to their land, onto their properties — we have no control over ownership.”(We often link to sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• After transforming online life by building Facebook as a platform for public sharing, Mark Zuckerberg said he planned to start shifting people toward private communications through Instagram, WhatsApp and Messenger. (Read his full blog post here.) [The New York Times]• As Uber prepares to go public, meet Tony West, the man with the tough task of cleaning up the company’s legal messes. He’s armed with impressive credentials and, unrelatedly, he’s Senator Kamala Harris’s brother-in-law. [The New York Times]• Transcripts of the descriptions of the death of Stephon Clark given by the two officers who shot him, recorded hours after the shooting, were among of hundreds of pages of police documents released on Tuesday under a new police record transparency law. [The Sacramento Bee]• A crime lab scandal that rocked Senator Kamala Harris’s office when she was the district attorney in San Francisco is getting re-examined in light of her presidential run. [The Washington Post]• Los Angeles agreed to settle a contentious lawsuit over the property rights of homeless people. The settlement could make it more difficult to seize and destroy encampments on Skid Row. [The Los Angeles Times]• WarnerMedia is investigating the conduct of the chief executive of Warner Bros. after The Hollywood Reporter published a lengthy report saying that he had a sexual relationship with a British actress and then pushed for her to get parts in movies and TV shows. [The New York Times]• Thoroughbred racing has been suspended at Santa Anita Park after another horse — the 21st since Dec. 26 — died there. The spike in deaths spells trouble for the industry. [The New York Times]• “It didn’t even have a grocery store until Ralphs opened about 10 years ago.” Today, cranes dot the Downtown Los Angeles skyline as the city prepares to host the 2028 Summer Olympics. [The New York Times]•  LeBron James passed Michael Jordan on the N.B.A.’s all-time scorers’ list last night. The Lakers still lost to the Denver Nuggets. [The New York Times]• There was a big thunderstorm in Southern California on Tuesday night. Here are some wild photos and videos of the lightning. [Curbed Los Angeles]• In East Hollywood, the many worlds within L.A. bump up against one another but they don’t always mix. That changed a little when Lena Louie, the owner of Wah’s Golden Hen, the Cantonese takeout spot across the street, visited Sqirl, the avocado toast temple, and met Jessica Koslow. [The Los Angeles Times]When I was in grade school, my family went on a trip to the Central Coast and we took a nighttime tour of Hearst Castle. I remember being stunned by the hillside palace and its expansive, serene pool with the classical statues, gleaming in the moonlight.At the time, it didn’t occur to me that the famous home was also significant because it was designed by Julia Morgan, the first woman to receive an architect’s license in the state. It wouldn’t be until years later that I’d hear her name, in Berkeley, where she went to school and where I’d come to enjoy noting her buildings to myself as I walked past.Ms. Morgan was just eulogized in The Times as part of the “Overlooked” series. And that’s good. Because her buildings define California — whether you know her story or not.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byOnce, it was easy to be obscure. Technology has ended that.By Woodrow Hartzog and Evan SelingerDr. Hartzog is a professor of law and computer science. Dr. Selinger is a professor of philosophy. We are constantly exposed in public. Yet most of our actions will fade into obscurity. Do you, for example, remember the faces of strangers who stood in line with you the last time you bought medicine at a drugstore? Probably not. Thanks to limited memory and norms against staring, they probably don’t remember yours either. This is what it means to be obscure. And our failure to collectively value this idea shows where we’ve gone wrong in the debates over data and surveillance.Lawmakers and industry leaders are missing the big picture. They are stuck on traditional concepts like “transparency,” “consent” and “secrecy,” which leads to proposals that reinforce broken mechanisms like consenting to unreadable terms of service. They are operating under the dangerous illusion that there’s a clear distinction between what’s public and what’s private. Most people probably intuitively know that their most deeply held secrets are private while the things about them that are commonly known or widely broadcast  are not. But what about information about our everyday actions that is shared with some but not all? Obscurity bridges this privacy gap with the idea that the parts of our lives that are hard or unlikely to be found or understood are relatively safe. It is a combination of the privacy you have in public and the privacy you have in groups. Obscurity  is a barrier that can shield you from government, corporate and social snoops. And until lawmakers, corporate leaders and citizens embrace obscurity and move to protect it, your freedom and opportunities to flourish will be in jeopardy. The concept was first meaningfully articulated in a landmark 1989 Supreme Court decision, Department of Justice v. Reporters Committee for Freedom of the Press, which recognized a privacy interest in the “practical obscurity” of information that was technically available to the public but could be found only by spending an unrealistic amount of time and effort. After the concept was introduced, most lawmakers, judges and the tech industry promptly forgot about it. This has dulled the potential of obscurity as a rallying point for change and leaves society struggling to protect something in dire need of defining and defending.Understanding obscurity means paying attention to how space, time and people’s cognitive limitations make it difficult for others to surveil us or find out things about us.Consider space. The further away people are, the harder it is to see with the naked eye who they are and where they’re going. Usually, we are visible only to those nearby. But cellphone location data can reveal that same highly personal information to anyone with means and motivation. We should be disturbed that apps often collect location data simply because they can and that T-Mobile, Sprint and AT&T reportedly have illegally sold customers’ 911 location data to third parties. And we should be pleased that the  Supreme Court ruled last year in Carpenter vs. United States that, under the Fourth Amendment, cellphone records can’t be seized without a warrant.Consider time. Memories fade as time passes. But the internet has impeccable recall. That’s why we should applaud the senators who have proposed a bipartisan update to the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act that would give parents and children an “eraser button” to remove a child’s data from platforms like Google and Facebook. It’s also why we should be skeptical of Mark Zuckerberg’s announcement that Facebook will become a more “privacy-focused platform” that emphasizes features like ephemeral, expiring information. Truly ephemeral communications are certainly obscure, but it’s unclear what information Facebook will scrub on the front end (for users) and the back end (from the company). The company’s history suggests we shouldn’t let our guard down. Obscurity is also a better way to understand Europe’s “right to be forgotten” law, which can’t make anyone forget anything, but can make the remnants of your awkward youth harder to find online.Finally, consider cognitive limitations. Facial recognition technology poses an immense danger to society because it can be used to overcome biological constraints on how many individuals anyone can recognize in real time. If its use continues to grow and the right regulations aren’t instituted, we might lose the ability to go out in public without being recognized by the police, our neighbors and corporations. Creating strong regulations for the technology is going to be an uphill battle, especially because it’s already become widespread, being deployed at airports to make boarding easier and adopted by schools to increase safety. It is even being used at summer camps so parents can automatically receive photos in which their children appear.Threats to our obscurity are growing because technology is making our personal information easy and cheap to aggregate, archive and interpret — with substantial growth in predictive analytics, too. To see what we mean, just look yourself up on the website MyLife and marvel at how much information has been cobbled together from different moments in your life for anyone to see at the click of a button. Even speaking in hushed tones to a friend at a crowded cafe might not be enough to protect your obscurity if cameras are someday equipped with lip-reading artificial intelligence software.Obscurity is vital to our well-being for several reasons. It gives us breathing room to go about our daily routines with little fear of being judged, sent unwanted ads, gossiped about or needlessly shamed.[As technology advances, will it continue to blur the lines between public and private? Sign up for Charlie Warzel’s limited-run newsletter to explore what’s at stake and what you can do about it.]Obscurity makes meaningful and intimate relationships possible, ones that offer solidarity, loyalty and love. It allows us to choose with whom we want to share different kinds of information. It protects us from having everyone know the different roles we play in the different parts of our lives. We need to be able to play one role with our co-workers while revealing other parts of ourselves with friends and family. Indeed, obscurity is one reason we feel safe bonding with others over our shared vulnerabilities, our mutual hopes, dreams and fears.Obscurity enables us to develop and grow as individuals. It provides us collectively with spaces to explore new and controversial possibilities, to transgress taboos and ignore arbitrary rules. You might have thought you could skip church without anyone knowing, but churches are being marketed facial recognition systems that will make sure your absences are duly noted. It won’t stop there.Obscurity protects us from being pressured to be conventional. This buffer from a ubiquitous permanent record is especially important for the exploratory phase of youth. To develop as humans, people must be free to try things they might later regret. This is how we become better people. Without obscurity, we wouldn’t have the freedom to take risks, fail and dust ourselves off. We’d be stymied by the fear of being deemed failures by a system that never forgets.Finally, obscurity is crucial to democracy. Obscurity fosters civic participation and gives us the confidence to attend political protests and engage in political speech online without worrying about ending up on a government watch list. It’s why the American Civil Liberties Union worries about the government monitoring social media.Things can be private even if others can see them. And there is so much of our lives that industry and governments have yet to find. But in our status-obsessed culture, it can be hard to appreciate that the opposite of obscurity isn’t fame, but chillingly oppressive fear. Woodrow Hartzog is a professor of law and computer science at Northeastern University. Evan Selinger is a professor of philosophy at Rochester Institute of Technology.Follow @privacyproject on Twitter and The New York Times Opinion Section on Facebook and Instagram.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a massacre at mosques in New Zealand, a Senate vote to defy President Trump, and the departure of two Facebook executives.At least 49 people were dead and dozens more injured today after shootings at two mosques in Christchurch in a terrorist attack that Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern called “an extraordinary and unprecedented act.” One man in his 20s was charged with murder. Here are the latest updates.The attacks occurred during Friday Prayer, and the authorities asked mosques across New Zealand to close. Two explosive devices were found attached to a vehicle that the police had stopped.The suspect: Shortly before the shooting, someone appearing to be the gunman posted links to a white nationalist manifesto online, including a link to a Facebook page where a live, 17-minute video of the assault was later broadcast. Here’s what we know so far about the suspect. President Trump promised a veto after senators voted 59-to-41 on Thursday to overturn his declaration of a national emergency, arguing that he had exceeded his powers in trying to build a border wall despite Congress’s objections.The details: Twelve Republicans joined the Democrats to overturn the emergency declaration. Here’s how every senator voted.What’s next: It’s unlikely that either the House or the Senate has enough votes to override a veto. But the actions in both chambers could bolster lawsuits contesting the emergency declaration.Yesterday: In a nonbinding resolution, the House voted 420-0 to demand that the Justice Department publicly release the full findings of the special counsel’s investigation into Russia’s interference in the 2016 presidential election.The captain of the Boeing 737 Max 8 that crashed on Sunday faced an emergency almost immediately after takeoff, requesting in a panicky voice to return after three minutes as the aircraft accelerated to abnormal speed.The account of air traffic communications involving the pilot, Yared Getachew, who had 8,000 hours of flying experience, provides far more detail about what was happening in the cockpit.How we know: A person who reviewed the communications shared the information with The Times, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the messages have not been publicly released.Related: After a similar crash in October, Boeing officials told American pilots’ unions that they planned to update the software for 737 Max jets by the end of the year. The carriers are still waiting for a fix.The University of Southern California was once snidely referred to as the “University of Spoiled Children,” but it began an extensive overhaul in the 1990s to become a top-tier school.That effort has been threatened by a series of corruption investigations, including this week’s revelation that the university is at the center of an admissions scandal involving federal charges of bribery and cheating.Closer look: The coaches charged, including some at U.S.C., are some of the most prominent in their fields.Column: The affluent have another advantage in gaining admission to many private colleges and universities: the capacity to pay four years of tuition, room and board — perhaps $300,000 — without financial aid. Our columnist explains. Frank Cali led the remnants of one of New York’s five Mafia families, the Gambinos, but he was, according to one law enforcement official, “the polar opposite of John Gotti,” one of his flashy predecessors. Despite his low profile, Mr. Cali met with a classic mob execution on Wednesday, shot outside his home on Staten Island. Two reporters  tell the tale. North Korean threat: The country is considering suspending negotiations over its nuclear arms program with the U.S., one of its senior diplomats said today. Vice Foreign Minister Choe Son-hui also said the North’s leader, Kim Jong-un, would soon decide whether to resume nuclear and missile tests.Facebook departures: Two top executives, including the head of the WhatsApp messaging service, are leaving after disagreements with Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive.Volkswagen accusations: The Securities and Exchange Commission accused the automaker on Thursday of “massive fraud” and lying to investors as part of a diesel emissions scandal.Brexit vote: Parliament has voted to postpone Britain’s departure from the European Union but, in a rare victory for Prime Minister Theresa May, narrowly failed to wrest control of the process from her. It remains unclear how long the delay will be.Rebuff to gun industry: The Connecticut Supreme Court has cleared the way for a lawsuit against the companies that manufactured and sold the semiautomatic rifle used  in the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in 2012. Climate protest: Students in more than 100 countries are planning to skip school today to push for action against climate change. We looked at the roots of the demonstrations, which started with one teenager in Sweden.Snapshot: Above, snow-covered trees in the mountains of northern Japan. Tourists come from around Asia to see the “juhyo,” known in English as ice monsters, but scientists say they are increasingly threatened by warming temperatures. In memoriam: Birch Bayh, the liberal former senator from Indiana, was a driving force behind laws barring sex discrimination in education and guaranteeing 18-year-olds the right to vote. He died on Thursday at 91.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Modern Love: In this week’s column, a woman wonders, “How do you break up with someone you like being around but don’t see a future with?”Late-night comedy: Stephen Colbert noted the Senate vote to overturn President Trump’s emergency declaration: “I mean, the last time Trump lost a vote that badly, he was elected president!” What we’re reading: This piece in the Los Angeles Review of Books. Chris, your Morning Briefing writer, says, “The South is well-known for preserving its past, but in this essay, a native of Atlanta reflects on two road trips, taken more than 20 years apart, and how little he knew about the history of his hometown.”Cook: This Guinness pie is worthy of a celebration. Watch: Netflix’s “Dating Around” finds romantic tension in the unlikeliest of places: the blind date, Amanda Hess writes.Read: We collected eight books that expose the mania around college admissions. Go: The new Hudson Yards in Manhattan is the largest mixed-use private real estate venture in American history. Our architecture critic, Michael Kimmelman, calls it “a relic of dated 2000s thinking.”Smarter Living: If you’re aiming to help the environment with a “zero waste” lifestyle, a reporter who went plastic-free for a week has some advice. Listing his needs helped him focus, and he went to stores that allowed bulk purchases in his cloth bags or would load his choices into his containers or paper bags.And Mercury is in retrograde. For once, scientists and astrologers agree: You need not be alarmed.A reader asked this week to hear more about E. Barrett Prettyman, whose name is on the courthouse described in Wednesday’s Back Story. The courthouse is where Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, was sentenced.The Virginia-born Elijah Barrett Prettyman was a lawyer, professor and journalist before President Harry Truman nominated him to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He served from 1945 to 1962. From 1958 to 1960, he was chief judge.He was admired in judicial and governmental circles. Presidents Dwight Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy turned to him to resolve difficult legal issues. He overcame years of congressional resistance to effect changes in the D.C. court system.The U.S. Courthouse, home to the court he served on, was named for him in 1997, 16 years after his death.His son, E. Barrett Prettyman Jr., also had an illustrious legal career, playing a crucial backstage role in the Supreme Court’s unanimous school-desegregation decision.That’s it for this briefing. See you next time.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford, James K. Williamson and Mark Josephson for the break from the news. Andrea Kannapell, the briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about a family that profited from the opioid crisis.• “The Daily” publishes a weekly newsletter that gives readers an exclusive look at how the podcast comes together. • Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: What the “sans” of Comic Sans refers to (5 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. Chris Stanford is the writer of the U.S. edition of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a home page producer at The Times. Before 2013, he worked at The Washington Post and other news outlets.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byCalifornia TodayBy Matt StevensGood morning.(Here’s the sign-up, if you don’t already get California Today by email.)Senator Kamala Harris declared her candidacy for president last Monday — and over the weekend, she hit the campaign trail in earnest.She held her first public appearance on Friday at a South Carolina gala. Then, on Sunday, she held a rally in her hometown, Oakland; today, she’s headed to Iowa for a town hall.“We are at an inflection point in the history of our world,” she said at the Sunday rally, the official start to her campaign. “We are at an inflection point in the history of our nation. We are here because the American dream and our American democracy are under attack and on the line like never before. And we are here at this moment in time because we must answer a fundamental question: Who are we? Who are we as Americans?”My colleague Astead Herndon has been following and writing about Ms. Harris and her presidential bid. He was in Columbia, S.C., with her on Friday. So I asked him to share some of his impressions and analysis. Here’s what he had to tell us:Astead: South Carolina, which votes fourth in the Democratic primary and is particularly important because of its high percentage of black voters, has played host to several likely presidential hopefuls in recent days, including Ms. Harris’s Senate colleagues Cory Booker of New Jersey and Bernie Sanders of Vermont.The difference for Ms. Harris? She has been able to lean on her enormous network as a member of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Inc., the country’s oldest black sorority. On Friday, she was the noted guest at the group’s annual Pink Ice Gala, which afforded her an audience of thousands of black South Carolinians at the ticketed event.“I’m so honored to celebrate with my sorors,” she said. “We stand on the shoulders of women who were leaders, who 111 years ago said to us that we must honor sisterhood and service.”The room was a preview of the electorate that could help slingshot her to victory. Older black residents, all dressed in black tie for the event, rushed the stage to get a photo with the presidential candidate, or to stream her speech on their social media channels. Ms. Harris did not mention her presidential candidacy in the short remarks, but the crowd knew this was the beginning of a long-term courtship.In a short gathering with reporters after, Ms. Harris said it was important to her to attend the event, to highlight the importance of black voters — and particularly black female voters — but also to share how much the sorority means to her.“My mother used to say, ‘You may be the first to do a lot of things, but make sure you’re not the last,’” Ms. Harris said. “It’s about bringing people with you.”(A note: We often link to content on sites that limit access for nonsubscribers. We appreciate your reading Times stories, but we’d also encourage you to support local news if you can.)• In case you missed it: The government shut down is over — for now. [The New York Times] And Roger Stone, a longtime adviser to President Trump, was indicted. [The New York Times]• Two years after Mr. Trump signed orders to hire 15,000 new border agents and immigration officers, the administration has spent tens of millions of dollars in the effort — but has thousands more vacancies than when it began. [The Los Angeles Times]• California farmers are facing a squeeze on their livelihoods. There’s a labor shortage, a new state overtime-pay law and the Trump administration’s rhetoric over immigration. And it could all lead to higher prices up at the grocery store. [USA Today]• In a sign that Gov. Gavin Newsom might actually be treating affordable housing like a crisis, the state has sued the city of Huntington Beach, accusing it of willfully refusing to comply with state housing law. [The Orange County Register]• A California Highway Patrol officer leading the inquiry into a series of stabbings at a neo-Nazi rally targeted left-wing activists and victims rather than investigating armed white supremacists. [The Guardian]• In a five-paragraph post, Willie Brown, the former mayor of San Francisco, addressed the intrigue surrounding his having dated Ms. Harris. The post takes an odd turn around Paragraph 4. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, plans to integrate the social network’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger. [The New York Times]• Logan Green, the chief executive of the ride-hailing service Lyft, may have to step into a more public role as his company and Uber race to go public. [The New York Times]• The Oakland A’s president, Dave Kaval, has unveiled plans for a gondola that would ferry fans from BART to the team’s proposed stadium at Howard Terminal. [The San Francisco Chronicle]• Justin Rose won the Farmers Insurance Open at Torrey Pines, protecting his status as the world’s top-ranked golfer. [The New York Times]• Are we watching the end of the monarch butterfly? Citizen scientists recently gathered in Bolinas to count them and the results were alarming. [New York Times Opinion]“It’s possible to have a great career without freezing every day,” the banner across a new San Diego marketing campaign says.Click.As The San Diego Union-Tribune has reported, an economic development group there is trying to bait millennials living in cold places to come to San Diego and work in science and technology by leaning on the city’s biggest asset.The campaign features a video, which opens by showing unrelenting snow and rain, which then gives way to a picturesque San Diego sunset.The campaign’s title? Just Say No to Winter.Consider me baited.California Today goes live at 6 a.m. Pacific time weekdays. Tell us what you want to see: CAtoday@nytimes.com.California Today is edited by Julie Bloom, who grew up in Los Angeles and graduated from U.C. Berkeley.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin, Melina Delkic and Elijah Walker(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. “This is not a manufactured crisis. This is truly an emergency.”Kirstjen Nielsen, the Homeland Security secretary, urged Congress to confront what she called a “humanitarian catastrophe” on the southern border by supporting President Trump’s border wall, though it is not clear how a wall would alter the flow of asylum seekers or address their needs.She was also defiant in the face of criticism of how the administration treats migrant families at the border, especially separating families.Separately, in a setback for Mr. Trump, the U.S. trade deficit in goods ballooned to $891.3 billion in 2018, its highest level in history. The deficit expanded mainly because of the strong U.S. economy, which allowed Americans to purchase more from abroad, and the strong dollar, which raised the international prices of U.S. exports._____2. Senator Martha McSally, Republican of Arizona and the first woman in the Air Force to fly in combat, said that she had been raped by a superior officer while serving.She made the disclosure at a Senate committee hearing about preventing sexual assault in the military, above, saying that she had nearly left the service. “I thought I was strong, but felt powerless,” she said. She stayed, she said, to be a voice for women: “It’s personal from two perspectives — as a commander who led my airmen into combat and as a survivor of rape and betrayal.”Also on Capitol Hill, House Democrats were accusing their party’s leaders of treating Representative Ilhan Omar unfairly. They ultimately put off a vote on a resolution condemning anti-Semitism, as critics said Ms. Omar was unfairly singled out._____3. The Supreme Court is getting an education in rap.Hip-hop stars including Meek Mill, above, Fat Joe and 21 Savage filed a brief urging the court to hear the appeal of a Pittsburgh rapper challenging his conviction. The artist, Jamal Knox, who raps under the name Mayhem Mal, was sent to prison for two years for threatening police officers in his song.“A person unfamiliar with what today is the nation’s most dominant musical genre or one who hears music through the auditory lens of older genres such as jazz, country or symphony,” they wrote, “may mistakenly interpret a rap song as a true threat of violence.”_____4. Mark Zuckerberg said he would shift Facebook’s platforms to emphasize private, encrypted communication, a major turn from public sharing.After grappling with years of scandal over data privacy, the Facebook founder and chief executive said he wanted to create systems that would offer users a “digital living room” where they can expect their discussions to be fully private.In other tech news, Tesla is shutting down most of its dealerships — just three months after a sprint to open new locations._____5. Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s former top adviser and close friend tried to defuse a political scandal gripping Canada.In testimony before a parliamentary committee, the adviser, Gerald Butts, pictured above, denied that any improper pressure was put on the former justice minister to settle a criminal case. He said the government wanted to consider a negotiated settlement for a company accused of bribery because thousands of Canadian jobs were at stake.Mr. Butts’s testimony may help mitigate the crisis, which has threatened the prime minister’s political future. We broke down how Mr. Trudeau became ensnared._____6. The chef Mario Batali has surrendered his stake in all of his restaurants.Of all the famous chefs and restaurateurs accused of sexual harassment, Mr. Batali is the first to pay such a price.The Bastianich family, which has partnered with Mr. Batali for 20 years, and other partners are regrouping to form a new company. Mr. Batali is also selling his shares in Eataly, the global chain of luxury Italian supermarkets.In other #MeToo developments, R. Kelly gave his first interview since being charged with sexual abuse, in which he screamed, cursed and pleaded to the camera. He now is heading back to jail for not paying child support._____7. Good news and bad news in the fight to combat overprescription of opioid painkillers: Prescriptions fell. Chronic pain patients have suffered.In a letter to be sent to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, more than 300 medical experts, including three former White House drug czars, say that federal guidelines aimed at curbing addiction are harming pain patients who find relief only through high doses of opioids. Above, a doctor and a pain patient in Nebraska in 2016.They say the guidelines are being used as cover by insurers to deny reimbursement and by doctors to turn patients away, leaving them in withdrawal and in misery, some to the point of suicide._____8. Thousands of runners, wrestlers, pictured above, soccer players and fitness fanatics exercise every evening on the beaches and streets of Senegal’s capital, where exercise is a way of life.With every breath, they inhale increasingly dangerous air. Dakar’s air exceeds more than five times the limits set by the World Health Organization for levels of damaging airborne particulate. One official estimated that a third of the population has some kind of lung ailment.“Sometimes it feels like I’m about to get choked,” one champion swimmer said._____9. “A reverie, a meditation, a therapeutic retreat, a musicians’ playground.”Our music critic offers a glowing review of Solange’s new album, “When I Get Home.” The album “is built for gentle, repeated immersion, not instant gratification,” he writes, one example of Solange’s step away from ordinary pop expectations.We also have a review of the latest installment of “Captain Marvel,” starring Brie Larson as the spacefaring comic-book superhero. It is the 21st entry in the interconnected Marvel movie franchise since it began in 2008, but the first to focus principally on a woman._____10. Finally, today is the first day of Lent for many Christians around the world.But before giving something up, residents in Hamtramck, Mich., have long celebrated Fat Tuesday with paczki, Polish pastries. Pronounced “PAWN-chkee,” the doughy pastries are filled with custard or fruit. Lines form well before sunrise at bakeries around the city. Above, the New Martha Washington Bakery on Tuesday.Residents see parallels in the stories of the Polish immigrants who came decades ago and those of the newer arrivals from the Middle East and Asia.“I haven’t seen Hamtramck’s identity really change in 100 years,” the mayor said. “We’re an immigrant city.”Have a sweet night._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Kenneth ChangJean Bourgain, a mathematician who conquered difficult problems prolifically across a wide swath of fields, died on Dec. 22 at a hospital in Bonheiden, Belgium. He was 64.The Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., where Dr. Bourgain was a professor, said the cause was pancreatic cancer.Dr. Bourgain’s honors included a Fields Medal in 1994, perhaps the most prestigious prize in mathematics, and the 2017 Breakthrough Prize, which was accompanied by $3 million. That prize, whose sponsors include Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, and Sergey Brin, a founder of Google, attempts to bring popular attention to researchers at the cutting edge of science and mathematics.Dr. Bourgain wrote or co-wrote more than 500 papers, far more than most professional mathematicians.“He was a problem solver unequaled,” Peter C. Sarnak, a colleague of Dr. Bourgain’s at the institute, said in an interview.Dr. Sarnak said that Bourgain started out in an esoteric corner of mathematics with extremely difficult problems. “He just came in and started solving one problem after the other in that subject,” he said. “So he made his name there, became very famous, winning all sorts of young-up-and-coming-star prizes. But then he broadened out.”Dr. Bourgain found that tools he had developed could also be applied to other fields of mathematics, including partial differential equations, computer science, quantum mechanics and dynamical systems, making progress on formidable problems that had stymied experts in those areas.“There would be some big mountain in front of you,” Dr. Sarnak said, “and he would ascend halfway up, occasionally all the way up. People couldn’t understand how he got all the way up. It would take often months or years for people to understand his proofs. He liked the idea that he was way ahead and people were catching up to him all the time. He would open these doors.”Some of Dr. Bourgain’s recent work included a “decoupling theorem” — a very abstract generalization of the Pythagorean theorem applied to oscillating waves, like light or radio waves. While Pythagoras merely showed how the length of the two shorter sides of a right triangle are related to the longer hypotenuse, the decoupling theorem proved by Dr. Bourgain and Ciprian Demeter, of Indiana University, showed similar relationships in the superposition of waves, when the individual oscillations are added together.The Belgian government bestowed the title of baron on Dr. Bourgain in 2015. He designed a coat of arms for himself with the inscription “In spem contra spem,” or “In hope against hope.”Jean Bourgain was born on Feb. 28, 1954, in Ostend, Belgium. After receiving a doctorate from the Free University of Brussels in 1977, he became a professor at the university in 1981.In 1985, he began splitting time between the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and the Institut des Hautes Études Scientifiques in Paris. He was also a professor at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and the California Institute of Technology before moving to the Institute for Advanced Study in 1994.Dr. Bourgain worked in the area of mathematics known as analysis, which often studies inequalities, with the aim of trying to simplify problems instead of coming up with exact solutions. “The art of analysis is not to lose the important information,” Vitali Milman, a mathematician at Tel-Aviv University in Israel, said in a phone interview.Dr. Milman recalled that he and Dr. Bourgain were once discussing a math problem and Dr. Bourgain told him that he had always kept two problems in mind: “One which I want to solve and another which I can solve.”When Dr. Bourgain was stuck on the problem he was working on, Dr. Milman said, he would work through the other one — which he knew how to work through — to reassure himself that he had not become “impotent in mathematics.”What was amazing, Dr. Milman said, was that Dr. Bourgain could intuit that a problem was solvable: “He was ready to do it, before he actually knew how to do it.”Dr. Bourgain was less comfortable in the classroom. While teaching a course at Illinois, he once asked Dr. Milman to join him on campus to provide emotional support. Before a lecture Dr. Bourgain was to give, Dr. Milman noticed him looking at a piece of paper. Dr. Milman asked if he was doing last-minute preparations. No, Dr. Bourgain replied; he was calculating what he would earn for holding the class.“When I see the number,” he told Dr. Milman, “I feel at ease going to the lecture.”Dr. Bourgain’s cancer was diagnosed in late 2014, but he continued his math research.Larry Guth, a mathematician at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, recalled coming across the decoupling theorem by Dr. Bourgain and Dr. Demeter. Their proof went against the expectations of people in the field. “That made me very curious about it,” Dr. Guth said in an interview.But Dr. Guth was hesitant to contact Dr. Bourgain, who had undergone cancer surgery a few months earlier. Then he checked an online archive of mathematics papers and found that Dr. Bourgain had posted several new papers since his operation.Dr. Guth wrote to Dr. Bourgain and Dr. Demeter, and they began discussing how to extend the work. A couple of weeks later, Dr. Guth was visiting Princeton and went to visit Dr. Bourgain, who then explained how to solve the problem they had been discussing. “It filled 10 blackboards,” Dr. Guth said.The resulting paper used the superposition of waves to settle a question about integers — a problem that had been intractable for more than 80 years.Dr. Bourgain is survived by his wife, Mei-Chu Chang; a son, Eric; and a sister, Claire Bourgain.A year ago, the American Mathematical Society honored Dr. Bourgain with its Steele Prize for lifetime achievement, but he was not done.In November, he was finishing a few final projects. Dr. Milman said a journal he edits will publish one of Dr. Bourgain’s final papers next month.A picture caption with an earlier version of this obituary misspelled the given name of one of the men pictured with Dr. Bourgain. He is Sundar Pichai, not Sunda.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byIn a country still struggling with the aftermath of racist policies, starting a business is also a way for Indigenous people to fight stereotypes.By Isabella KwaiWant Australian news with a global perspective? Sign up here for the weekly Australia Letter.MELBOURNE, Australia — It was a disempowering experience at a large corporate organization that prompted Morgan Coleman to become an entrepreneur.Initially, he was proud to work there. But soon, as one of the few Indigenous employees, he felt patronized and unwelcome by some, and worried that his manager resented him because of his Torres Strait Islander background.Now, as part of a growing number of Indigenous Australians finding success in the entrepreneurial world even as the rate of non-Indigenous business ownership has fallen, he feels his future rides solely on his merit. “Whether I succeed or not, it’s entirely up to me,” Mr. Coleman, 28, said in a recent interview at the Melbourne offices of Vets on Call, the app he left his corporate job to start. “The market doesn’t care if you’re Indigenous or not.” The number of Indigenous Australians operating and owning businesses grew by an estimated 30 percent between 2011 and 2016, according to a 2018 paper from Australian National University. And given that the Indigenous population is younger than the country’s over all — with a median age of about 23 — Indigenous entrepreneurs say they find business ownership both alluring and empowering. That is particularly meaningful in a country that still struggles with the aftermath of racist policies that forcibly separated Indigenous children from their parents, refused Indigenous people the rights to their own land and kept them from voting. For many whose lives have been touched by trauma from these policies, entrepreneurship is not only a pathway toward building wealth — it is also an effort to combat stereotypes.“We’re not just good sports people — we’re good science people, we’re tech people,” said Marsha Uppill, 45, an Adnyamathanha woman who founded the company Arranyinha. Sharing its title with her birth name in her Aboriginal people’s language, her company is developing a tool that will help bridge cultural and other gaps between Western businesses and local and national Aboriginal communities.For Mr. Coleman, whose Indigenous father was sent away during his childhood in the era of family separation, the stereotypes can cut both ways. His light skin has made him the subject of scorn at times from both white and Indigenous Australians, he said. Although the rate of Indigenous business ownership still lags behind non-Indigenous ventures, in recent years the uptake in those wanting to start their own ventures has been significant, according to Indigenous Business Australia, a government agency that provides support and loans for homeownership and business ventures. These days, the agency approves about four times as many loans as it did six years ago, and most are given to first-time start-ups, said Wally Tallis, its deputy chief executive.“Our demand is outstripping our ability to service our customers,” he said.Australia’s government is also encouraging Indigenous entrepreneurship. In 2015, it introduced targets for awarding contracts to Indigenous businesses, and last year it unveiled new financial support, on top of an Indigenous Entrepreneurs Fund offering 90 million Australian dollars, or about $65 million, in assistance. State government agencies are also chipping in.That backing has been a lifeline for entrepreneurs like Ms. Uppill, who won a local government grant that helped her set up her business structure. “It’s been fantastic to have that support,” she said.But others say that having to meet the criteria is slowing them down. Mr. Coleman, who grew up in regional Victoria, found that he was not eligible for government grants because he did not live in a remote area and had not been denied a loan from mainstream banks. He was also excluded from some grants because his business is not directly aimed at Indigenous communities. So he has funded Vets on Call with his own assets instead. He has yet to make a profit, though the app is growing. And many do not have assets or a financial safety net. “They haven’t got that intergenerational wealth like the Bill Gates or the Mark Zuckerbergs,” said Dean Foley, 30, a Kamilaroi who founded Barayamal, a start-up accelerator for Indigenous entrepreneurs. Still, that has not stopped Indigenous Australians from pitching, designing and brainstorming, he said. “It’s called sweat equity. You just have to work hard.” It is that type of ethic that drives Ms. Uppill, whose mother, a member of what came to be known as the Stolen Generations, was taken from her home in the South Australian Flinders Ranges when she was 7. Ms. Uppill, who did not deeply understand her Adnyamathanha heritage until she revisited her home nation as a teenager, said she had not seen herself as an entrepreneur early on. But she was struck by the mind-set of her elders. “Aboriginal people have always been entrepreneurs,” she said of an 80,000-year history in which her people have had to adapt to changing times. “That’s what we are — that’s how we survived.” Similarly, Mr. Coleman had never worked in the tech field before starting Vets on Call, which allows pet owners to book home visits from veterinarians.And Indigenous cultural values are also at the heart of ventures like Faebella, a luxury activewear start-up developed by Alisha Geary, 24, which features authentic Indigenous art designs. Ms. Geary, who is half Aboriginal and half Torres Strait Islander, has vowed to ensure that the artists are paid well for their work. Her company’s first sets of designs sold out within days, she said. “This is going to help my business and therefore my family and community.” It’s the type of result Mr. Coleman said was essential to help show that Indigenous people can succeed at the highest level. “You can’t just succeed — you have to be seen to succeed,” he said.After a year of putting in his own sweat equity, Mr. Coleman is looking forward to taking three days off for his 29th birthday next month. But with app redesigns and marketing events coming up, the break will be brief. “Just because society doesn’t expect much from Indigenous people doesn’t mean we don’t expect from ourselves,” he said. Being Indigenous is an advantage, he added. “We’re very strong willed,” he said.Jenina Ibañez contributed research.Follow Isabella Kwai on Twitter: @bellakwaiWant more Australia coverage and discussion? Join us in our Facebook group, sign up for the weekly Australia Letter and start your day with the Australian Morning Briefing.Isabella Kwai covers news and the occasional slice of life for the Australian bureau. She is based in Sydney.  @bellakwai Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNews AnalysisBy Damien CaveSYDNEY, Australia — What if live-streaming required a government permit, and videos could only be broadcast online after a seven-second delay?What if Facebook, YouTube and Twitter were treated like traditional publishers, expected to vet every post, comment and image before they reached the public? Or like Boeing or Toyota, held responsible for the safety of their products and the harm they cause?Imagine what the internet would look like if tech executives could be jailed for failing to censor hate and violence.These are the kinds of proposals under discussion in Australia and New Zealand as politicians in both nations move to address popular outrage over the massacre this month of 50 people at two mosques in Christchurch, New Zealand. The gunman, believed to be an Australian white nationalist, distributed a manifesto online before streaming part of the mass shootings on Facebook.If the two countries move ahead, it could be a watershed moment for the era of global social media. No established democracies have ever come as close to applying such sweeping restrictions on online communication, and the demand for change has both harnessed and amplified rising global frustration with an industry that is still almost entirely shaped by American law and Silicon Valley’s libertarian norms.“Big social media companies have a responsibility to take every possible action to ensure their technology products are not exploited by murderous terrorists,” Scott Morrison, Australia’s prime minister, said Saturday. “It should not just be a matter of just doing the right thing. It should be the law.”The push for government intervention — with a bill to be introduced in Australia this week — reflects a surge of anger in countries more open to restrictions on speech than in the United States, and growing impatience with distant companies seen as more worried about their business models than local concerns.There are precedents for the kinds of regulations under consideration. At one end of the spectrum is China, where the world’s most sophisticated system of internet censorship stifles almost all political debate along with hate speech and pornography — but without preventing the rise of homegrown tech companies making sizable profits.No one in Australia or New Zealand is suggesting that should be the model. But the other end of the spectrum — the 24/7 bazaar of instant user-generated content — also looks increasingly unacceptable to people in this part of the world.Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand argues that there must be a middle ground, and that some kind of international consensus is needed to keep the platforms from limiting public protection only to certain countries.“Ultimately, we can all promote good rules locally, but these platforms are global,” she said Thursday.Even in the United States, frustration has been building as studies show that social media’s algorithms and design push people further into extremism even as the platforms are protected by the Communications Decency Act, which shields them from liability for the content they host.Some social media companies are starting to say they are willing to accept more oversight and guidance.In an op-ed in The Washington Post on Saturday, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, called for government help with setting ground rules for harmful online content, election integrity, privacy and data portability.“It’s impossible to remove all harmful content from the internet, but when people use dozens of different sharing services — all with their own policies and processes — we need a more standardized approach,” he wrote.At the same time, Facebook and the other major platforms insist they are doing everything they can on their own with a mix of artificial intelligence and moderators.Google, the parent company of YouTube — which declined to comment on the proposals in Australia and New Zealand — has hired 10,000 reviewers to flag controversial content for removal. Facebook, too, has said it will hire tens of thousands more employees to deal with finding and removing content that violates its rules.Those rules may be getting tougher. On Wednesday, Facebook announced that it would ban white nationalist content because “white nationalism and separatism cannot be meaningfully separated from white supremacy and organized hate groups.”But critics say it’s too little, too late.Facebook has “been on notice for some time that their policies and enforcement in this area were ineffective,” David Shanks, New Zealand’s chief censor, said in an email on Sunday. Since the mosque killings in Christchurch, Mr. Shanks has made it a crime to possess or distribute the video of the attack and the suspect’s manifesto.Experts say social media companies still take as a given that users should be allowed to post material without advance vetting. Neither the communications laws that govern broadcast nor the ratings systems applied to movies and video games affect social media, leaving a frictionless, ad-driven business model built to encourage as much content creation (and consumption) as possible.From a business perspective, the system works. On YouTube, 500 hours of video are uploaded every minute. In 2016, Facebook said viewers watched 100 million hours of video every day, while Twitter handles 500 million tweets a day, or nearly 6,000 every second.“The more speech there is on these platforms, the more money they can make,” said Rebecca Lewis, a doctoral student at Stanford and researcher at Data & Society who has studied radicalization patterns on YouTube. “More speech is more profit.”Europe is already trying to rein in the free-for-all. On Tuesday, the European Parliament passed a law that will make companies liable for uploaded content that violates copyright. It follows a tough privacy law, the General Data Protection Regulation, and an online hate speech law in Germany, the Network Enforcement Act, both of which took effect last year.The laws represent a significant setback for social media behemoths that have long argued that their platforms should be treated as neutral gathering places rather than arbiters of content.[For more Australia news with global context, get the Australia Letter in your inbox.]The hate speech law in particular is being closely studied in New Zealand and Australia.It tries to hold platforms liable for not deleting content that is “evidently illegal” in Germany, including child pornography and Nazi propaganda and memorabilia. Companies that systematically fail to remove illegal content within 24 hours face fines of up to 50 million euros, or around $56 million.Australian officials said Saturday that they were also planning hefty fines.And yet, it is far from clear that stiffer penalties alone are the solution.One problem, according to experts, is that banned posts, photos and videos continue to linger online. The mix of human moderation and artificial intelligence that platforms have deployed thus far has not been enough to monitor and drain the swamp of toxic content.“The automation is just not as advanced as these governments hope they are,” said Robyn Caplan, a researcher at Data & Society and a doctoral candidate at Rutgers University.“It’s a mistake,” she added, “to call these things ‘artificial intelligence,’ because it makes us think they are a lot smarter than they are.”At the same time, legitimate expressions of opinion, including a satirical magazine, have been deleted because of the law.“We have to be incredibly careful and nuanced when we draw these lines,” Ms. Caplan said.Even the criticism of live-streaming — which Facebook has said it is taking seriously — needs to be carefully considered, she added, because “there’s a lot of good coming out of live-streaming,” including transparency and scrutiny of the police.Officials in Australia and New Zealand are trying to work through these issues. After meeting last week with executives from Facebook, Google and Twitter, Australian lawmakers said Saturday that the new bill would make it a criminal offense punishable by three years in prison for social media platforms not to “remove abhorrent violent material expeditiously.”They made it clear that the tech world’s self-image of exceptionalism needed to end.“Mainstream media that broadcast such material would be putting their license at risk, and there is no reason why social media platforms should be treated any differently,” Attorney General Christian Porter said.John Edwards, New Zealand’s privacy commissioner, agreed but pointed to a different example: the Boeing 737 Max plane that has been grounded worldwide after two crashes believed to be tied to a software problem.“I would say Facebook’s ability to moderate harmful content on its live-streaming service represents a software problem that means the service should be suspended,” he said. “I think that’s just the right thing to do.”Charlotte Graham-McLay contributed reporting from Wellington, New Zealand, and Mike Isaac and Daisuke Wakabayashi from San Francisco.Want more Australia coverage and discussion? Sign up for the weekly Australia Letter, start your day with your local Morning Briefing and join us in our Facebook group.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Dana GoldsteinWhen 30,000 Los Angeles teachers went on strike on Monday, prominent Democrats — and potential presidential candidates — lined up to give their blessings.Senator Kamala Harris of California said she was “standing in solidarity” with teachers, who are demanding higher pay, smaller classes and more support staff.“I’m with teachers all the way,” Senator Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts said on Twitter.Senators Cory Booker, Sherrod Brown, Kirsten Gillibrand and Bernie Sanders all shared similar sentiments about a strike that has drawn broad public support but disrupted the routines of half a million, mostly low-income children.In 2019, after a year of teacher walkouts across the country, it is practically impossible for a national Democrat to profess anything short of full-throated support for picketing educators. But many of them this week steered clear of the most contentious underlying cause of the strike: the teacher union’s opposition to the growth of charter schools, and the union’s claim that district officials — who are largely Democrats — favor charter schools over traditional ones.The unified cheers from Democrats belie deep and long-running rifts in the party over what public education should look like, at a time when the party is debating its direction. Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers, likened the Los Angeles strike to “a gladiator fight” between two factions.On one side are those who have hewed to President Barack Obama’s centrist position on schools: supporting high-performing charters, which are publicly funded but privately managed, while putting pressure on teachers’ unions to raise student achievement and give up some of their traditional seniority protections.On the other side is organized labor, which has resisted the growth of the mostly nonunion charter sector. Union leaders say charters take students and public dollars from traditional neighborhood schools.But as democratic socialism, and sympathy for unions, is on the rise among young Democrats, the Obama-era view that charters create more competition and better choices for families no longer rules the party.Over the past year, teacher walkouts, including six in conservative and swing states, have captured the public’s attention. The movement has “reshaped the discussion within the Democratic Party nationally,” said Alex Caputo-Pearl, the firebrand president of United Teachers Los Angeles, the union that is currently on strike. “Do we need to back away from what corporate Democrats have been promoting for a long time, which is charter schools and privatization?”The debate between school-choice supporters and teachers’ unions goes back more than a decade. During the 2008 presidential primary between Mr. Obama and Hillary Clinton, Mr. Obama was the candidate of charters and teacher accountability, while Mrs. Clinton was more aligned with the unions. On one occasion, Mr. Obama was even booed by an audience of union educators, because he spoke in support of performance pay.As recently as last month, as talk of a strike in Los Angeles intensified, Mr. Obama’s first secretary of education, Arne Duncan, argued in an op-ed that a walkout would be misguided.But other Democrats who have championed school choice sided with the striking teachers this week, focusing on the two issues that have been a constant chorus in a year of protests: school funding and teacher pay.“Teachers play an extraordinary role in the lives of our children, and for too long our country has not given them the respect & support they deserve,” Senator Booker, the Democrat from New Jersey, said on Twitter on Wednesday. “I stand with our teachers — our country must increase investment in our schools & educators.”As mayor of Newark, Mr. Booker worked to expand charter networks, building relationships with philanthropists, like Mark Zuckerberg, who fund charters.“Ten years ago when I talked about school choice, I was literally tarred and feathered,” Mr. Booker said at the Democratic National Convention in 2008. “I was literally brought into a broom closet by a union and told I would never win office if I kept talking about charters.”Jeff Giertz, a spokesman for Mr. Booker, declined to address the senator’s record on charter schools or teachers’ unions, but said the senator had long supported efforts to increase pay and support for educators.More than a quarter of public school students in Los Angeles attend the city’s charter schools, according to the National Alliance for Public Charter Schools. School choice advocates expressed frustration that charters — which are outside the scope of the Los Angeles teachers’ contract — had become central to the strike, calling the subject a distraction from issues like rising pension and health care costs.Nick Melvoin, vice president of the Los Angeles Board of Education and a Democratic ally of the charter movement, said about a third of every dollar spent in the district was devoted to health care and pensions. Requiring teachers to pay a premium for insurance, or asking future educators to work longer before earning certain retirement benefits, could help free up money for higher salaries, smaller classes and other union demands, he argued.The union has resisted efforts to change how benefits are structured or paid for, he said.Both sides agree that it will most likely take the intervention of the California governor, Gavin Newsom, or Mayor Eric Garcetti of Los Angeles, both union allies, to end the strike, perhaps by ponying up more funds for union priorities or the district’s budget.Negotiations between the district and the union came to a complete halt late last week. Mr. Garcetti persuaded the two sides to meet at City Hall on Thursday and “stay at the table” until an agreement could be reached. With the mayor’s office acting as a mediator, the negotiations went from noon until midnight Thursday and continued Friday.A deal between them won’t settle the long-simmering debate in the Democratic Party, either in California or nationally, about school choice — or change the reality that at the moment, teachers’ unions are ascendant, while charter school supporters seem to be losing ground.In the meantime, district and union leaders in Los Angeles continue to use the strike’s spotlight to pitch competing visions for schools.Though Mr. Melvoin believes the union’s leadership has been “particularly recalcitrant,” he said he was encouraged to see the excitement on the picket lines from teachers and community members who support public education — even if he disagrees with them on the details.“It has been inspiring,” he said.Jennifer Medina contributed reporting.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Adam SatarianoLONDON — Facebook identified two disinformation campaigns originating from Russia — including one tied to an agency controlled by the Kremlin — that were targeted at users in Europe and Central Asia. The company said on Thursday it had deleted nearly 500 pages and accounts that had posted the misleading messages.Many of the pages were discovered to be linked to employees of Sputnik, an agency controlled by the Russian government that was established to spread reports and information sympathetic to Russia. It used independent news pages on topics like weather, travel and sports to mask its efforts, Facebook said.The company has been under pressure to more aggressively address the spread of misinformation, and to counter manipulation on its social network that is aimed at stirring division and discord, ever since it became evident that Russia used it to target groups of voters, sow division and spread false information in order to sway the 2016 presidential election. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, has said the detection of suspicious activity is a top priority.But on a platform of two billion users, disinformation campaigns are hard to detect, and Facebook remains a gathering ground for groups eager to spread disinformation to the widest audience possible.The activity revealed by Facebook shows how Kremlin-linked groups continue to use the social network to spread misleading materials around the world. Several of the countries targeted share a border with Russia.“We are constantly working to detect and stop this type of activity because we don’t want our services to be used to manipulate people,” Nathaniel Gleicher, head of cybersecurity policy at Facebook, said in a blog post.The discovery provides another glimpse of the manipulative tactics used by groups to promote their articles, videos, groups and other content on Facebook. Fake accounts were created in different countries with the sole purpose of sharing content from Sputnik.Facebook said one of the campaigns had targeted people in 13 countries in Eastern Europe and Central Asia. Facebook deleted 289 pages and 75 accounts linked to that effort, which also spent about $135,000 on Facebook advertising from 2013 to this month.About 790,000 users followed one or more of the pages, and up to 1,200 people expressed interest in attending one of the roughly 190 events organized by those behind the fake pages. Facebook couldn’t say whether any of the events had taken place.The company said the misleading content aimed to influence people in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, Romania, Russia, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan.Facebook said it had shared information about the investigation with United States authorities, Congress, other technology companies and policymakers in the targeted countries.Ben Nimmo, a research fellow at the Atlantic Council, a Washington think tank that analyzes misinformation online, said Facebook’s decision to block Sputnik-linked accounts was significant because of the agency’s direct ties to the Kremlin.“This is the first time we’ve seen a takedown of this scale linked directly to the national propaganda channel,” said Mr. Nimmo, who was part of a group at the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab that had been investigating the Russian campaign separately from Facebook. “This is the first time we’ve had something that was so directly traced back to Sputnik itself.”In Moscow, Sputnik accused Facebook of “censorship,” saying that the platform had blocked seven pages that belonged to newsrooms in different countries and calling the decision “political,” according to an article by RIA Novosti, another branch of Russia’s propaganda apparatus.“Sputnik is dealing with news,” the organization said. “If blocking is the only reaction Facebook can come up with in response to the quality work of news media, then we have no further questions.”The statement also said Sputnik hoped that “common sense will prevail.”The Atlantic Council said the pages were a covert attempt to amplify messages from Sputnik, a division of the Kremlin’s media agency, Rossiya Segodnya. All told, the inauthentic network helped Sputnik raise its reach in the countries covered by more than 170 percent, according to the Atlantic Council.Much of the posted material was innocuous content about weather, fashion and local celebrities, but some presented negative views toward NATO and the treatment of ethnic Russians in Baltic countries. Most of the pages didn’t mention a connection with Rossiya Segodnya or Sputnik.“This therefore appears to have been an attempt to audience build and draw users’ attention to Sputnik as a media brand rather than to manipulate them with Russian political or geopolitical messaging,” the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab said in a report published separately from Facebook.The work appeared to be coordinated. On a single day in October 2017, the Atlantic Council said, inauthentic pages seeking to spread Sputnik content were created to focus on Armenia, Chechnya, Estonia, Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan. At other points, fan pages purporting to support the presidents of Uzbekistan and Tajikistan were created, but they were actually run from Russia.Facebook also identified a separate effort, discovered after a tip from United States law enforcement authorities, aimed at users in Ukraine, a frequent target of Moscow misinformation campaigns over the four-year confrontation between the two neighboring countries.The tactics used by those behind the Ukraine-targeted accounts were similar to the misinformation efforts conducted by Russia’s Internet Research Agency during the campaign for the recent midterm elections in the United States, Facebook said.The effort included 107 Facebook pages, groups and accounts, as well as 41 Instagram accounts.“The people behind this activity coordinated with one another and used fake accounts to misrepresent themselves, and that was the basis for our action,” Mr. Gleicher said of the shutdowns.Facebook has discovered several coordinated misinformation campaigns since the 2016 presidential election, when Russia-linked groups used the social network to reach 126 million users.In November, Facebook said it had blocked more than 100 Facebook and Instagram posts over concern they were linked to the Internet Research Agency. In August, Facebook also removed 652 fake accounts, pages and groups originating in Russia and Iran that were trying to spread misinformation.The actions are a shift from when Facebook was widely criticized for failing to detect Russian interference. Facebook executives have said the company is making progress, but also warn of a protracted and challenging battle as groups become more sophisticated at avoiding detection.“Get used to this,” Mr. Nimmo said. “It’s not just Facebook. It’s going to be all the platforms. This is the new normal.”Neil MacFarquhar contributed reporting from Moscow.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.Another attempt in Parliament to control the Brexit process, a special look at Indian elections and a global search for “Salvator Mundi.” Here’s the latest:Late Monday in Britain, lawmakers will try again to come up with an alternative to Prime Minister Theresa May’s plan, which they have now rejected three times.Chances of success appear minimal. None of the eight options that were on the table last week managed to fetch a majority in Parliament, and fewer are likely to be considered in this round.Failure would leave the country with two unappealing options: leave the E.U. in a little over a week without a deal or delay Brexit further.Analysis: “In interviews, many Britons expressed despair over the inability of the political system to produce a compromise,” our London correspondents Ellen Barry and Benjamin Mueller write. “No one feels that the government has represented their interests. No one is satisfied. No one is hopeful.“It has amounted to a hollowing out of confidence in democracy itself.”The winners: One industry that seems to be booming amid the Brexit chaos: law firms dealing with client concerns about the legal ramifications of the divorce with the E.U. The president, emboldened by his attorney general’s public characterization of the Mueller report, has threatened to close off parts of the U.S. border with Mexico this week. He also ordered the State Department to cut off aid to Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador, saying the three countries were not doing enough to stop migrants from pushing north.In recent weeks, Border Patrol facilities have been strained by an influx of migrants — the largest annual surge in years — ahead of the arrival of the deadly summer heat.Impact: Sealing the border would effectively close off the U.S. from one of its largest trading partners, and could leave American citizens who travel back and forth stuck in limbo.Conditions: Processing stations across the 1,900-mile border with Mexico were not expanded despite projections of the influx, and makeshift additions have been overwhelmed.One camp under a bridge in El Paso, Tex., which one volunteer described as resembling a “concentration camp,” was cleared out following an outcry over conditions there.In the aftermath of the live-streamed massacre in Christchurch, New Zealand, lawmakers in both countries are considering sweeping new policies that would restrict the kind of content permitted on social media platforms.If the two countries move ahead, their regulations could serve as models for the rest of the world amid growing frustration and anger with Silicon Valley giants.But the efforts walk a fine line between intervention and censorship. For established democracies that cherish free speech, China’s sophisticated system of suppressing online content could be seen as a cautionary tale.Over the weekend: Social media companies are themselves beginning to converge around the need for new rules. Mark Zuckerberg invited Congress to regulate Facebook and other social media networks in an opinion piece for The Washington Post. He suggested they focus on harmful content, election integrity, privacy and data portability.With around 900 million voters, almost 2,000 registered parties and five weeks of voting, the Indian elections can seem cacophonous. Even for your briefing writer, a diaspora Indian, they’re difficult to follow. The country’s myriad states, cultures and socioeconomic segments can’t be sliced into left or right, red or blue. It’s a kaleidoscope, and each prism illuminates a different aspect of the political spectrum.But it is also heartening to watch this young democracy exercising a right denied to many in the surrounding region. And it is important: What happens in India can end up shifting the global economy and geopolitical landscape.Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his right-wing Hindu nationalist Bharatiya Janata Party are seeking to retain power, facing a surging challenge by the opposition Congress Party. The briefing will be regularly unpacking aspects of the race. Voting unfolds from from April 11 until May 19 and results are announced on May 23.For now, keep in mind that the backdrop for the campaigning is a flammable mix of economic, religious and national security issues. Unemployment is high, sectarian violence has risen, farmers across the country are increasingly frustrated and there’s a broad disillusionment with politicians.Send us your feedback and any questions you have about the elections here.Taiwan: Two Chinese fighter jets crossed the self-ruled island’s maritime border, a move Taiwanese officials condemned as “provocative,” saying it “seriously impacted regional safety and stability.”Jeff Bezos: The Amazon founder’s security consultant accused the Saudi government of hacking Mr. Bezos’ phone, motivated by the aggressive coverage in The Washington Post, which Mr. Bezos also owns, of the murder of Jamal Khashoggi. The consultant provided no evidence but said he had turned his findings over to law enforcement.Boeing 737: Black box data from the doomed Ethiopian Airlines flight suggests that a faulty sensor that erroneously activated an automated stabilizing system on the jet caused the crash, a sequence also suspected in the crash of a Lion Air flight in October.Joe Biden: The former vice president, accused of touching and kissing a Nevada candidate just before appearing in support of her political campaign in 2014, released a statement saying he didn’t believe he acted inappropriately but admitted to making “expressions of affection” on the campaign trail. He is expected to announce whether he will run for president soon.Arctic drilling: A U.S. federal judge ruled that President Trump’s executive order to lift an Obama-era ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean was unlawful, keeping the drilling ban in “full force” and hindering Mr. Trump’s efforts to undo his predecessor’s environmental legacy.North Korea: The country said that a mysterious raid of its embassy in Madrid last month, led by a Mexican man who lives in the U.S., was a “grave terrorist attack” and a “flagrant violation of international law.”Afghanistan: The country’s vice president, Gen. Abdul Rashid Dostum, survived the latest in a series of Taliban attacks. The insurgent group’s list of grievances against the former warlord leads with the deaths of thousands of Taliban prisoners who surrendered to his forces in late 2001, many of whom suffocated in sealed trucks en route to prison.“Salvator Mundi”: The location of the famed painting attributed to Leonardo da Vinci has been a mystery since last year, shortly after a Saudi royal, most likely the crown prince, paid $450 million for it.The Kardashians: For more than a decade, the family has turned its feuding on reality TV into business opportunities. “People don’t know how much work goes into it,” the family matriarch, Kris Jenner, said in an interview with The Times.111 years young: Two British men, Alfred Smith and Bob Weighton, have lived through two world wars, more than 20 prime ministers and the entire rule of Queen Elizabeth II. Their advice for longevity? “Avoid dying,” and “porridge is helpful.”Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: Alison Roman’s spicy noodle soup with mushrooms and herbs is a deeply flavored vegetarian dinner.Time management can only get you so far. The true key to productivity, according to Adam Grant, a Wharton School expert, is attention management.Hostels are the best way to travel cheaply all over the world.The Bauhaus art school celebrates the centennial of its founding today.The Modernist school (whose name comes from the German for “house building”) was among the first to combine the teaching of crafts, design, architecture and fine art.Walter Gropius, the architect who established the school in 1919 in Weimar, Germany, wrote in the Bauhaus’s program that the ultimate aim was the “unified work of art.”And he enlisted masters of various artistic disciplines, such as Wassily Kandinsky, Laszlo Moholy-Nagy and Paul Klee, to join the Bauhaus faculty.The school survived for little more than a decade before it was shut down in 1933 under pressure from the Nazis.But its legacy of uniting art and functional design in everyday life is long-lasting, and Bauhaus principles were spread worldwide.Anna Schaverien, from our London newsroom, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byAfter life with Harvey Weinstein, the show is back on Bravo for its 17th season. Are you ready to love again?By Valeriya Safronova“Project Runway” arrived on television at the end of 2004, the same year that Mark Zuckerberg created a website called The Facebook at Harvard. In 2007, Apple released the first iPhone. Three years later, when “Project Runway” was in its seventh season, Instagram appeared in the App Store.That tech-history lesson is to say: 2019 looks a whole lot different from 2004. So when Bravo reacquired the rights to “Project Runway” last year, the network wasted no time in recalibrating the show, which will have its premiere on Thursday. The most significant of the changes is the cast.Tim Gunn and Heidi Klum, whose faces have been synonymous with “Project Runway,” announced last September that they would not return to the show and that they are developing a new fashion series with Amazon, where viewers will be able to buy the styles they like through the website. Zac Posen, who replaced the designer Michael Kors, also departed. Nina Garcia, now the editor of Elle, is the only remaining member of the original cast.“Heidi and Tim were the originals, and I enjoyed working with them,” said Shari Levine, the executive vice president for current production at Bravo. “But this is 15 years later. It’s important that the show evolve and look to the next generation.” Die-hard fans may embrace the new cast or see them as impostors, but Bravo’s picks carry significant credentials. The new host is the supermodel Karlie Kloss, who is also the founder of Kode With Klossy, a nonprofit that hosts coding camps for girls around the country. Christian Siriano, who won the “Project Runway” competition in its fourth season and made a name for himself as a designer to the stars and a champion for inclusivity, is the new mentor. Joining Ms. Garcia on the judges’ row are Elaine Welteroth, who is the former editor of Teen Vogue, and the designer Brandon Maxwell, who most recently made a splash dressing Lady Gaga for the Oscars.Guests will include the rapper Cardi B and Dapper Dan, who in the 1980s and ’90s made “knockups” using the Gucci logo without permission and who has recently made a buzzy comeback with a Harlem atelier and an authorized Gucci collaboration. Bravo is surely counting on these casting choices to help revive the show’s ratings. According to Nielsen, Season 5 drew the most viewers: almost 3.6 million per episode. By Season 16, the last to air, the audience was roughly half that.Though “Project Runway” was ahead of the curve in some ways — bringing in a designer who incorporated magnets, cameras and other technology into her work, for instance, or asking contestants to make clothing from waste (a Heron Preston move before Heron Preston) — the show also had moments best left in the past. Fans will remember an episode in which Mr. Gunn called a model “zaftig” and then elaborated, saying, “She’s a little large.” Today Mr. Gunn would be swiftly “canceled” across social media for such a comment. The culture has changed. And one of those changes — the #MeToo movement — is in part the reason the show is back on Bravo. “Project Runway” was owned by the Weinstein Company, which declared bankruptcy last year after dozens of women accused Harvey Weinstein of sexual misconduct that spanned decades. Though the show ran on Bravo for its first five seasons, the Weinstein Company signed a deal in 2008 to move it to Lifetime. But after allegations against Mr. Weinstein became public in 2017, Lifetime’s parent, A&E Television Networks, accused the Weinstein Company of breaching its contract and ended all of its obligations to the show, including the airing of Seasons 17 and 18.In May 2018, a Delaware bankruptcy court approved a bid from Lantern Capital Partners to acquire the Weinstein Company’s assets. Days later, Bravo announced that “Project Runway” would return.“It’s been on another network for 10 years, but if you asked a lot of people, they would tell you it’s a show on Bravo,” Ms. Levine said. “We defined it, and it defined us.”A long-running criticism of “Project Runway” is that over a 14-year run, it produced only one high-profile designer: Mr. Siriano. Many of its contestants opened boutiques or started their own lines, but none reached the mainstream recognition of Mr. Siriano. “A lot of people went to design school and wanted to become designers because of that show,” said Fern Mallis, the industry executive widely credited with organizing New York Fashion Week (and who appeared on “Project Runway” several times as a guest judge). “On the other hand, it falsely created a sense that if you sew two pieces of fabric together, you’re a designer.” Ms. Mallis added that many of the challenges tested the contestants’ artistic abilities but not their understanding of the moneymaking side of fashion. “Your business still has to manufacture, deliver and price items correctly,” she said. Some of the changes in the 17th season nod to those concerns. Bravo has increased the prize money to $250,000; thrown in a mentorship with the Council of Fashion Designers of America, which runs the main New York Fashion Week calendar; and added a “flash sale” component to some of the episodes, which will allow viewers to purchase the top looks, as decided by them and the judges.“One of the disconnects about the previous show was that if you loved it, you couldn’t necessarily buy it,” Mr. Maxwell said in a phone call. The change was both a response to the new culture of consumerism — items are a click away — and a way to engage the audience in real time. “Everything is changing in retail,” Ms. Kloss said over breakfast at Mercer Kitchen in SoHo in February. “Here we are in SoHo, and there are so many vacant spaces.”Ms. Welteroth, sitting next to Ms. Kloss, chimed in. “You cannot underestimate the power of the digital revolution,” she said. “Before, there was no dialogue unless you were writing a letter and snail-mailing it in. Now you hear the voices of the people you’re reaching instantly. That gives the consumer or the reader much more power. You can no longer ignore marginalized voices who are saying, ‘Hey, this doesn’t reflect me, this offends me, this doesn’t include me.’” She added: “You can sell online without ever getting the approval of Vogue.”Ms. Welteroth, who is credited with reinventing Teen Vogue as a more socially conscious, politically engaged publication, noted that designers have to be conscious of the world around them. “You have to be mindful of what is happening and really conscious in how you create and what stories you’re telling,” she said.To that end, one of the challenges on the new “Project Runway” will ask each designer to think about and create designs for an issue they want to champion. The new show also strives to reflect a broader swath of experiences. “I’m really proud we have women of all shapes and sizes and the first transgender model in ‘Project Runway’ history,” Ms. Kloss said. “Fashion should serve everyone.” The new judges said they adjusted to their roles quickly, each finding a personal rhythm and style. “Brandon would have, like, really funny stuff,” Ms. Welteroth said of Mr. Maxwell’s design notes. “Like, ‘cowgirl goes to SoulCycle.’ Or he would just put a big ‘No.’ One time Nina left early, and we looked at her cards, and we were, like, ‘Wow.’ We saved them. They were so good.” Ms. Kloss turned to Ms. Welteroth. “Your notes were, like, there was not an ounce of space left on the card,” she said. “I would just have three words.”For all the changes, some things stay the same, even in the “one day you’re in, one day you’re out” world of fashion. “I felt like all I talked about was fabric,” Mr. Siriano said of his time as a mentor. “The importance of choosing the right fabric,” he said, “will exist till the end of time. Satin doesn’t change.” And besides, he said, “If you can’t pick one fabric for one challenge, how are you making a collection four times a year for customers around the world?”An earlier version of this article misstated the name of the nonprofit that Karlie Kloss founded. It is Kode With Klossy, not Kode With Karlie. Also, an earlier version of this article misstated Cardi B’s role on the show. She is a guest, not a guest judge.Valeriya Safronova is a reporter for the Style section. She is based in New York.  @vsaffron Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Vindu Goel and Sheera FrenkelNEW DELHI — After a suicide bombing on Feb. 14 in the disputed border region of Kashmir, India accused neighboring Pakistan of harboring the terrorists who it said had orchestrated the attack. The two countries quickly traded airstrikes.Online, there was another battle.One clip that circulated widely on Facebook and other services purported to show an aerial assault by India on an alleged terrorist camp in Pakistan. It was, in fact, taken from a video game. Photographs of dead bodies wrapped in white, supposedly of Pakistani militants killed in the attack, actually depicted victims of a 2015 heat wave, according to fact checkers. And local news outlets raced to post shreds of “exclusive” information about the hostilities, much of it downright false.Facebook executives said the deluge was extraordinary. “I’ve never seen anything like this before — the scale of fake content circulating on one story,” tweeted Trushar Barot, a former BBC journalist who leads the social network’s anti-disinformation efforts in India.The flood of fake posts gave Facebook a taste of what is to come as India prepares for the world’s biggest election. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bharatiya Janata Party are seeking another five years in power, and as many as 879 million people are expected to vote over five weeks starting on April 11.But as campaigning goes into high gear, Facebook is already struggling to cope with the disinformation and hate speech on its core social network and on WhatsApp, its popular messaging service.On Monday, the company said it had removed hundreds of misleading pages and accounts associated with the B.J.P. and its main rival, the Indian National Congress, many of which were publishing false information. Facebook also removed more than 100 fake pages and accounts controlled by the Pakistani military.India — where the company has 340 million users, more than in any other country — poses distinct challenges. Posts and videos in more than a dozen languages regularly flummox Facebook’s automated screening software and its human moderators, both of which are built largely around English. Many problematic posts come directly from candidates, political parties and the media. And on WhatsApp, where messages are encrypted, the company has little visibility into what is being shared.False rumors of child kidnappers have gone viral on WhatsApp in India, prompting fearful mobs to kill two dozen innocent people since April“India’s elections present a unique set of issues, including a large number of languages and an extended time period for voting,” said Katie Harbath, Facebook’s public policy head for global elections. She said the company had been planning for the election for more than a year.Other major social media platforms like Twitter and Google’s YouTube are also grappling with false news and hate speech around India’s elections. For the first time, the country’s Election Commission has asked online services to police election-related content from candidates and parties.But the stakes are especially high for Facebook, which has been under scrutiny since the 2016 United States presidential election for distributing misinformation and for being misused by Russian agents to stir discord. While the company survived the 2018 American midterm elections relatively unscathed, it still found foreign influence networks attempting to use it to sway voters. And Facebook’s services were plagued by misinformation in last year’s Mexican and Brazilian elections.India is one of Facebook’s most important electoral tests this year, company officials said, along with major elections in places including the Philippines and Indonesia. Facebook’s performance will be a prelude for how it navigates a likely onslaught of propaganda, false information and foreign meddling during the 2020 presidential election in the United States.“The Indian elections in 2019 are an important test case for how they get 2020 right, and how they get elections right everywhere going forward,” said Graham Brookie, director of the Digital Forensic Research Lab at the Atlantic Council, a think tank working with Facebook to study disinformation campaigns.India has been a laboratory for Facebook’s election efforts since 2014, when the country last chose a Parliament. In that contest, Facebook worked closely with Mr. Modi’s campaign to target ads and rally fans — part of a global effort to spread the use of the platform in politics. With Facebook’s assistance, Mr. Modi became the world’s No. 2 most “liked” politician behind President Barack Obama, according to campaign officials.After Mr. Modi’s victory, Facebook advised him on how to use its service to govern, including getting government agencies and officials online. In 2015, Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, hosted Mr. Modi for a televised chat at the company’s Silicon Valley headquarters. Facebook held India up as a model for how governments could use the social network.Facebook has since played down its connection to politicians around the world, including Mr. Modi, amid a rise in political misinformation. Ajit Mohan, a former Fox executive who became the social network’s first India chief in January, said, “We are absolutely not affiliated to any political party in India or anywhere else in the world.”Now all the major Indian parties have sophisticated disinformation strategies, which include posting false and manipulated photos and videos and coordinating posts across a network of paid acolytes and volunteers. That has put Facebook, which has said it does not want to stifle free expression, in an awkward position.For the past year, the company has relied on two independent organizations — first a local group called Boom and, more recently, the news agency Agence France-Presse — to fact-check a handful of posts in India every day. In February, Facebook added five more organizations to the stable and expanded the number of languages covered to seven, up from just English initially.Facebook’s algorithms flag potentially fake posts to the fact-checkers, who decide which ones to investigate. After they publish their findings on Facebook, the company said, it reduces the visibility of false posts.Yet some of Facebook’s fact-checkers may themselves be contributing to misinformation. Alt News, an Indian fact-checking site unaffiliated with Facebook, recently found two of the social network’s new partners — the large media houses India Today Group and Jagran Media Network — had repeatedly published false information related to the Kashmir attack.Pratik Sinha, the founder of Alt News, said Facebook did not seem to view false news as a serious problem. “The whole thing is a P.R. effort,” he said. Jency Jacob, the managing editor of Boom, said Facebook needed to do more, including making it easier for users to report misinformation.Balkrishna, who heads the fact-checking effort at India Today, said that mistakes happened and that the company tried to correct them promptly. Pratyush Ranjan, a senior editor at Jagran New Media, the company’s digital division, said its fact-checking site, Vishvas News, operated separately and followed strict ethics guidelines. Facebook said it relied on the Poynter Institute, an American journalism organization, to certify its fact-checkers and review their ethical standards.A separate Facebook effort to assemble a broad coalition of Indian news organizations to combat false news during the election has been delayed amid funding problems and the departure of a key journalist who had worked on it.The company has also tried to shed more light on political advertising on its site, posting weekly reports on top advertisers and how much they spent. Since Feb. 21, when Facebook began tracking the data for India, spending has totaled about 103 million rupees, or about $1.5 million.But the social network has not pushed for transparency on who is really paying for the ads. While the site’s top three political advertisers in India were all associated with the B.J.P.’s election efforts, none of them explicitly disclosed that affiliation to viewers.How does the election work? Will Modi win? What are the main issues facing India and its 900 million voters?Facebook has also had difficulty dealing with hate speech, which is expected to intensify during the election.For example, Raja Singh, a fiery right-wing Hindu legislator in the southern Indian city of Hyderabad, refers to Muslims as “cow killers” — an inflammatory phrase that has led to some deaths since the country’s Hindu majority considers cows to be sacred. Although Facebook had removed some of Mr. Singh’s posts for violating its hate speech rules, at least one threatening rant — in which he calls Muslims “dogs” and talks of cutting off their necks — remained on his official Facebook page for months.Facebook removed the video, and then deleted Mr. Singh’s Facebook page, after The New York Times inquired about it.In an interview, Mr. Singh said he was simply defending Hindus from Muslims. “It is imperative that we threaten them in our own style,” he said.Thenmozhi Soundararajan, the founder of Equality Labs, a human rights group in the United States, said her organization recently studied more than 1,000 Facebook posts that attacked caste and religious minorities. It found that 80 percent of the posts stayed on the social network after they were reported as hate speech, and nearly half of the posts that were initially removed were up again several months later.Mr. Mohan said Facebook recognized that it had more work to do. It recently decided to set up an election “war room” in India to better respond to problems.“This will evolve and continue to get better,” he said. “There is a tremendous amount of sincerity that we need to get this right.”Follow Vindu Goel and Sheera Frenkel on Twitter: @vindugoel and @sheeraf.Vindu Goel reported from New Delhi, and Sheera Frenkel from San Francisco. Suhasini Raj contributed reporting from New Delhi.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Astead W. HerndonSenator Elizabeth Warren, the Massachusetts Democrat who is bidding to be the policy pacesetter in the Democratic presidential primary, championed another expansive idea on Friday evening in front of a crowd of thousands in Queens: a regulatory plan aimed at breaking up some of America’s largest tech companies, including Amazon, Google, Apple and Facebook.At a rally in Long Island City, the neighborhood that was to be home to a major new Amazon campus, Ms. Warren laid out her proposal calling for regulators who would undo some tech mergers, as well as legislation that would prohibit platforms from both offering a marketplace for commerce and participating in that marketplace.“We have these giants corporations — do I have to tell that to people in Long Island City? — that think they can roll over everyone,” Ms. Warren told the crowd, drawing applause. She compared Amazon to the dystopian novel “The Hunger Games,” in which those with power force their wishes on the less fortunate.“I’m sick of freeloading billionaires,” she said.Ms. Warren’s policy announcement sent reverberations from New York to Silicon Valley, as she further cemented herself as one of the Democratic candidates most willing to call for large-scale changes to the country’s structure in the name of equality.Among the crowded field of Democrats seeking the presidential nomination, Ms. Warren has done the most to add detail to those early proposals, including a plan for universal child care, a tax on the country’s wealthiest families, and, as of Friday, breaking up big technological giants.Ms. Warren’s regulatory plan would also force the rollback of some acquisitions by tech giants, the campaign said, including Facebook’s deals for WhatsApp and Instagram, Amazon’s addition of Whole Foods, and Google’s purchase of Waze. Companies would be barred from transferring or sharing users’ data with third parties. Dual entities, such as Amazon Marketplace and AmazonBasics, would be split apart.[Sign up for our politics newsletter and join our conversation about the 2020 presidential race.]Pressure for elected officials to place additional oversight on mega-tech companies has been building for months, particularly after revelations that companies such as Facebook may have violated customer privacy agreements. Ms. Warren is also sending a political warning shot across the Democratic primary field, where decisions on how much to embrace or reject Silicon Valley and its wealthy donors could become an important dividing line among candidates.In the wide-open nomination race, Democrats such as Ms. Warren, Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont and Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota have expressed a willingness to limit the influence of companies such as Facebook, Google, Apple and Amazon — though Mr. Sanders and Ms. Klobuchar have yet to present clear policy details. Senator Kamala Harris, who represents many of those companies based in her home state of California, has repeatedly pressed executives on consumer privacy but has stayed away from direct calls to limit their influence. Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey has been more willing to embrace the controversial corporations, who have frequently used their vast resources to lobby politicians of both parties.“Our technology industry is the envy of the world and we need policies that will foster innovation and consumer choice — but we also need stronger enforcement of antitrust law,” said Ro Khanna, the California House Democrat who represents Silicon Valley headquarters of companies such as Apple and eBay. He said that blanket statements against big tech companies weren’t helpful, but that each company needed to be “evaluated on a case-by-case basis and afforded due process.”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]Ms. Warren’s plan creates two tiers of companies that would fall under the new regulations: those that have an annual global revenue of $25 billion or more, and those with annual revenue of $90 million to $25 billion. The upper tier would be required to “structurally separate” their products from their marketplace. Smaller companies would be subject to regulations but would not be forced to separate themselves from the online marketplace.Ms. Warren, who has previously said moving to Boston would have been a “good opportunity” for Amazon, said in a Medium post Friday morning that companies have grown so powerful that they can bully cities and states into showering them with massive taxpayer handouts in exchange for doing business, and can act — in the words of Mark Zuckerberg — “more like a government than a traditional company.”During a brief interview later in New York, Ms. Warren refused to say whether Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo was right to have offered hefty tax incentives to Amazon in return for the proposed campus in Queens. Boston’s mayor, Martin J. Walsh, from Ms. Warren’s home state, also offered similar incentives.“That’s not the point,” she said. “Before you even get into the question of do you need to change the statutes, there are structural changes you can make in the economy to prevent Amazon from dancing its way across America saying, ‘What will you offer me if I came?’”This is a refrain she has hit for years, including in a 2016 speech titled “Reigniting Competition in the American Economy.” Last year, she introduced the Accountable Capitalism Act, which seeks to curb shareholder power by forcing corporations to increase worker representation on their governing boards, while also reducing incentives for big companies to pay out shareholders rather than reinvest in businesses.Matt Stoller, a fellow at the Open Markets Institute in Washington and a former senior adviser to the Senate Budget Committee, said Ms. Warren’s plan was “practical” and “necessary.” He compared big tech companies to the tobacco monopolies of America’s past, which were eventually subjected to antitrust lawsuits.“There’s been a traditional sense around the politics of D.C. that these companies are progressive,” Mr. Stoller said. “Their employees give to Democrats, they’re friendly to social liberalism, there’s an idealism to how they talk about the world. That’s been the traditional sense.”“But these companies have the moral frame of Big Tobacco,” he added. “They don’t care.”Carl Szabo, who is vice president at an e-commerce trade association called NetChoice, said he felt Ms. Warren’s plan was unnecessary. He warned that it could lead to weaponization of antitrust laws, as legislators target companies deemed to be their enemies.“Politicizing and weaponizing antitrust law is ripe for abuse,” said Mr. Szabo, who is a professor of privacy law at George Mason University’s law school. “We’ve already seen how politics can inject itself into antitrust reviews, and I don’t think our legislators should be encouraging this precedent.”Though tech giants have experienced several controversies in recent years, it is unclear how popular Ms. Warren’s antitrust proposal would be with voters. Rob Atkinson, president of Information Technology and Innovation Foundation, an industry-sponsored group, defended the power of big companies in the technology sector for what he described as benefits to consumers.“The Warren campaign’s call to break up big tech companies reflects a ‘big is bad, small is beautiful’ ideology run amok,” Mr. Atkinson said. “The proposal ignores the fact that many of the services big tech companies now provide free used to cost consumers money.”Matt McIlwain, a partner at the Seattle venture capital firm Madrona Venture Group, which was an early Amazon investor, said in an email, “Senator Warren and others with a similar mind-set are misguided on the need to break up larger tech companies.”“Companies in the innovation economy have a strong track record of creating quality products and services that are often free or at dramatically lower costs than previous services,” Mr. McIlwain said.For those closely watching the Democratic presidential nomination contest, the announcement was another example of Ms. Warren’s political strategy, which is to appeal to voters based on policy ideas and retail politics, not soaring oration or feel-good messages of unity.Among the crowd in Queens, which included more young people than many Warren rallies across the country, several said they appreciated her policy focus.“The fact that she focuses on concrete policy, this early in the race, is really aspirational,” said Milo Vassallo, who is involved in several Brooklyn leftist groups. Mr. Vassallo said he particularly liked Ms. Warren’s new proposal on technology.“Her goal is not to undermine big tech, but just make it more competitive,” he said.Kevin Murray, a 28-year-old law student who lives in Queens and who has not decided on a candidate to support, praised Ms. Warren’s proposals as “tangible.” Mr. Murray also wanted to come to the rally because Ms. Warren is the author of one of his law school textbooks.“I would’ve brought it for her to sign,” he said, “but it was a rental.”OpinionZeynep TufekciAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byMorin Oluwole heads the social media giant’s advisory operation for Louis Vuitton, Christian Dior and others.By Dana ThomasPARIS — Facebook has been mired in mud for the past year, with its data-sharing and disinformation scandals and the subsequent fallout. But there is a woman in Paris whose job it is to make the platform look as appealing as possible to an industry that is all about beauty and image: Morin Oluwole, the global head of luxury for Facebook and Instagram.Because she is good at her job and because she is a rare combination in the technology sphere — a woman, a minority and a luxury brand acolyte — the company has been touting her as one of its public faces.Not an easy assignment. With Facebook drawing attention for its data practices and use of personal information to make money, Ms. Oluwole, 34, and her particular area of expertise — how to employ user’s data profiles for targeted advertising on Facebook and Instagram — have been encountering increased public scrutiny and pressure. So much so that she became visibly uncomfortable when the subject was broached.“It’s a false idea that there is a collection, there is a transfer, there is a sale of data to clients,” she said during a recent interview in a nondescript conference room at Facebook’s headquarters in the Paris’s Second Arrondissement. “Data is not transferred.” She stared, not blinking. “That’s super, super clear and very important.”Well, O.K.: Data might not be sold. But it is used. And luxury has benefited.When Ms. Oluwole opened her division four years ago, she said, she faced resistance from the old-school fashion names, long averse to digital novelty. Slowly, she earned executives’ trust — not only because she is a savvy marketer with a master’s degree in business administration from Columbia University, but also because she is a devoted luxury consumer. On the day of the interview, she had augmented her swishy navy Maje minidress with Chanel boots that had a golf-ball-size pearl suspended in each clear Lucite heel, a stainless-steel Rolex Datejust watch and a Louis Vuitton ring adorned with the initial M.Her iPhone was enveloped by a Goyard case. Her business card holder: Chanel. This season, she attended the Christian Dior and Berluti shows. “Luxury is what I do,” she said, “but it’s also part of my innate life.”Born in Lagos, Nigeria, to a family of doctors and lawyers, and educated in England, Ms. Oluwole joined Facebook in 2006, when she was a pre-med undergrad at Stanford University and the start-up was still an inter-university network with just 150 employees. In 2013, she saw the potential of the fashion world, and persuaded her then-boss Carolyn Everson, Facebook’s vice president of global marketing solutions, to establish a department focused squarely on the luxury sector.In 2015, Ms. Oluwole opened her two-person “global luxury hub” in Paris. She rented a small apartment in the hipster neighborhood of Montorgueil (and has since bought a home in the tony 16th Arrondissement) and enrolled in French classes at the Alliance Française.About the same time, Instagram hired Eva Chen, the well-connected former editor in chief of Lucky magazine, as director of fashion partnerships for the platform in New York. Ms. Chen’s brief has been to consult with fashionable figures, such as models, designers, stylists and celebrities, and help them create posts that increase their followers (her services are free).Ms. Oluwole runs the business side of the equation: counseling luxury brands on how to use Facebook and Instagram to their financial benefit, and she bills clients like advertising agencies do, based on consumer response, such as clicks per post.She said she doesn’t ever tell brands what the message should be. Instead, she said, “we build a 360-degree communication strategy for brands to share content and drive business value via targeted advertising.”That is how Ms. Oluwole talks: in jargon-heavy M.B.A.-speak that is, at times, hard to parse. Straight-backed and no-nonsense, she exudes authority. “And chic — she is so chic,” Ms. Chen said. “A great mix of strategy and style. Morin” — pronounced MUH-rhin — “understands all the different aspects of Facebook and Instagram.”Louis Vuitton and Dior were the first to grasp Ms. Oluwole’s pitch and sign on. Gucci, Bottega Veneta, Hermès and others soon followed. Her division has grown to 10 staff members in Paris, with satellite offices in New York, London, Milan, Dubai, Seoul, Tokyo and Hong Kong. She wouldn’t say how many brands are advertisers or partners on Facebook or Instagram but “we represent all the major players in the luxury business,” she said.Ms. Oluwole’s staff creates profiles — compiled from user information, like date of birth, ZIP code, education and work history, favorite music, pages followed — to pinpoint ad targets for brands. For several years, Facebook and Instagram also incorporated information from third-party brokers like Acxiom but such data compilation was banned when the General Data Protection Regulation went into effect in the European Union in May.Facebook and Instagram were obliged to change their gathering process “across the board” to be compliant, Ms. Oluwole said: “We no longer get information from external sources. We can’t see what kind of car someone bought, because we don’t work with that data provider anymore.”But say you live in 90210 — Beverly Hills — and you “like” Tesla, Fendi and Peninsula Hotels. That would make you a bull’s-eye for Ms. Oluwole’s partners.“Facebook has all this data that you don’t realize they have,” said Scott Galloway, professor of marketing at NYU’s Stern School of Business, and author of “The Four: The Hidden DNA of Amazon, Apple, Facebook and Google.” “They know you better than your doctor, priest and rabbi.” The problem, he said, is that “bad actors can weaponize that data,” as Cambridge Analytica proved last spring, when the London-based political consulting firm revealed that it had harvested personal data from millions on Facebook — specifics that investigators said swayed elections and Britain’s vote to leave the European Union.No one is saying that Gucci, Louis Vuitton and Ms. Oluwole’s other clients are involved in anything similar. But it is true that she has built a business, and a lucrative one, on capturing user information and exploiting it to the profit of Facebook, Instagram and their luxury partners. While she would not specify the division’s revenue, she said her division’s piece of the Facebook pie was “quite significant” and added, brightly, “our potential is still large.”She is not the only one who thinks so. Last summer, YouTube hired the “CNN Style” host Derek Blasberg, and Snapchat lured Selby Drummond from her longtime editor’s post at American Vogue; they, too, have been charged with forging alliances with luxury, apparel and beauty brands.Data mining methods have caught the attention of regulatory agencies. One, Germany’s Federal Cartel Office, ruled last month that Facebook could no longer combine user data with information from its other platforms, such as WhatsApp and Instagram, without the person’s explicit consent. Facebook said it would appeal.Whatever the outcome, it may be moot. “These platforms used to be separate companies — Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp — with separate databanks,” Mr. Galloway said. “Now they are integrating their back ends — one back end and three different interfaces. And, in my mind, that is dangerous. Facebook will have all this data in one place. And it’s porous — it’s easy for others to access. “The Centers for Disease Control has your health records, but they took extraordinary measures to protect that data,” he said. “Facebook hasn’t done that.”(On Wednesday, Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook chief executive, announced in a blog post that Facebook soon would shift from public posts toward a more secure messaging system.)Other platforms have begun to muscle in on Ms. Oluwole’s territory. In August, Ms. Drummond had a preview of Adidas’s Falcon W shoe on a new Snapchat show called “Fashion 5 Ways;” the stock sold out in six hours. Mr. Blasberg teamed with Rihanna to stream her Savage x Fenty lingerie show on YouTube during New York Fashion Week last September; they further amped up the noise by packing the front row with popular social media influencers.As a result, Facebook is increasing its efforts — or, as Ms. Oluwole said, putting “more functionalities in the pipeline.” IGTV, or Instagram Television, is becoming a more important channel on the app. “Stories” are expanding at Facebook. And there is “Shopping,” a new Instagram tab dedicated to exactly that.“One day,” Ms. Oluwole said, technology will “create some sort of system that allows you to intelligently guess what the next items are that a consumer wants to purchase.” She looked excited. That time, she said, would be “great.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNonfictionWhen you purchase an independently reviewed book through our site, we earn an affiliate commission.By Jacob SilvermanTHE AGE OF SURVEILLANCE CAPITALISM The Fight for a Human Future at the New Frontier of Power By Shoshana Zuboff 691 pp. PublicAffairs. $38Canadian politicians don’t attract much notice this side of the border, but recently I’ve been heeding the words of Charlie Angus. A member of Canada’s Parliament for the New Democratic Party, Angus is a longtime punk rocker and activist with ties to the Catholic Worker movement; he’s also a sharp critic of the growing power of Big Tech. In late November, Angus attended a hearing in British Parliament in which representatives from nine countries took turns interrogating a Facebook vice president about the company’s proliferating scandals (an empty chair sat before a Mark Zuckerberg nameplate, marking the chief executive’s absence).For Angus, fake news and data-based manipulation — exemplified by the shadowy work of Cambridge Analytica, whose voter-profiling scheme is often cited as an important factor in Donald Trump’s 2016 victory — were mere symptoms of a larger malady. “The problem is Facebook,” he declared. “The problem is the unprecedented economic control of every form of social discourse and communication.” It was one of Angus’s colleagues, the Canadian member of Parliament Bob Zimmer, who may be the one who gave the problem a name: “Surveillance capitalism,” he said, with its vast concentrations of data and influence over human life, required new laws and new forms of regulation.Both Angus and Zimmer were right, but before we can establish a firm legislative or regulatory agenda, we have to learn what surveillance capitalism is, as we come to terms with the novel form of economic and social power represented by Facebook, Google and a handful of other tech behemoths privy to our every click and utterance. Enter, as a critical guide, Shoshana Zuboff, who has emerged as the leading explicator of surveillance capitalism. A Harvard Business School professor emerita with decades of experience studying issues of labor and power in the digital economy, Zuboff in 2015 published a paper, “Big Other: Surveillance Capitalism and the Prospects of an Information Civilization,” which has since become an essential source for anyone looking to reckon seriously with what she described as a distinct, emerging economic logic. Now she has followed up that paper with a doorstop of a book, an intensively researched, engagingly written chronicle of surveillance capitalism’s origins and its deleterious prospects for our society.According to Zuboff, surveillance capitalism distinguishes itself from its industrial forebear as “a new economic order that claims human experience as a free source of raw material.” We are the resource to be mined; the billion-dollar profits of Facebook and Google are built on a general accounting of our lives and everyday behavior. But surveillance capitalism is also many other things: “a parasitic economic logic … a rogue mutation of capitalism … a new collective order based on total certainty” and “an overthrow of the people’s sovereignty.” All this may sound a little heady, like perhaps an overseasoned stew of po-mo economic jargon, but Zuboff will have you asking for another helping long before the book’s end.Surveillance capitalism depends on the constant gathering of “behavioral surplus,” or the data exhaust that we produce as part of the normal course of web browsing, app use and digital consumption. All of it is potentially revealing, allowing companies to make sophisticated inferences about who we are, what we want and what we’re likely to do. As the economist Hal Varian noted in 2002, “Every action a user performs is considered a signal to be analyzed and fed back into the system.” That means that there is potentially no end to a surveillance capitalist’s extractive appetite, which is why — in the name of more efficient services and relevant ads — companies are constantly pursuing new, more granular data streams in our homes, workplaces and bodies. Unlike oil, to which it’s often compared, personal data is potentially limitless, but its extraction and consumption may be just as toxic, as we’re only beginning to understand.Under the regime of surveillance capitalism, it is not enough simply to gather information about what people do. Eventually, you have to influence behavior, beyond the simple suasion practiced by targeted ads. It’s not about showing someone the right ad; you have to show it at the right place and time, with the language and imagery calibrated for precise effect. You have to lead people through the physical world, making them show up at the sponsored pop-up store or vote for the preferred candidate. Armed with a veritable real-time feed of a user’s thoughts and feelings, companies are beginning to practice just this kind of coercion, which is why you might see makeup ads before a Friday evening out or why inducements from a personal injury lawyer might pop up on your phone as you sit in a hospital waiting room. When we want things — health information, travel schedules, a date — is also when we are most vulnerable, when intimate data yield themselves for corporate capture. “The result,” as Zuboff notes, “is a perverse amalgam of empowerment inextricably layered with diminishment.” We seem ever more exposed to and dependent on surveillance capitalists, our benevolent info-lords, but their operations are defined by opacity, corporate secrecy and the scrim of technological authority.In the face of all this, Zuboff sees a disastrous overturning of the traditional capitalist order. We are being pushed “toward a society in which capitalism does not function as a means to inclusive economic or political institutions.” With statements like these, Zuboff threatens to lose those readers who don’t share her regard for a bygone halcyon era of industrial capitalism that produced what she calls “traditional reciprocities,” defined by straightforward exchanges of money for goods and services, which in turn bound people together in ostensibly healthy social, economic and political arrangements. Zuboff’s analysis would benefit from more emphasis on the role of deregulation, the declining power of organized labor and the gradual financialization of the economy. With its ability to create boutique investment products that are several degrees removed from any tangible asset, it’s finance that seems like the most obvious ideological forebear of surveillance capitalism, which uses digitalization to render more of life as tradable commodities.But Zuboff’s capacious book has room for minority opinions and other forms of dissent. “The Age of Surveillance Capitalism” may lack a straightforward political program — Zuboff comes across as a liberal, albeit not one who slots neatly on the left-right axis — but it is loaded with useful economic, technological and anthropological analysis. (In this political vacuum, I’d recommend the work of Trebor Scholz, a New School professor who has made a winning case for what he calls platform co-ops — nonprofit, worker-owned tech platforms that would lack the perverse incentives of surveillance capitalism.)We should, after all, avoid a belief in tidy solutions. Works of technology criticism are often expected to provide a few hundred pages of doomsaying before providing a concise final chapter in which the Gordian knot of our problems is neatly and improbably cut. “The Age of Surveillance Capitalism,” with its near-700-page footprint, is thankfully not that kind of book. Light on prescriptivist notions, Zuboff does propose a “right to sanctuary,” based on universalist, if ever more threatened, humanitarian principles, like the right to asylum. But she’s after something bigger, providing a scaffolding of critical thinking from which to examine the great crises of the digital age. Through her we learn that our friends to the north were indeed correct: Facebook is the problem (along with Google, Microsoft, Amazon, et al.). This is the rare book that we should trust to lead us down the long hard road of understanding.Jacob Silverman is the author of “Terms of Service: Social Media and the Price of Constant Connection.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. At least 49 people were killed in a terrorist attack in New Zealand, Britain will seek a Brexit postponement and radio messages shed light on the crash of Flight 302. Here’s the latest:Forty-nine people were killed in shootings at two mosques in central Christchurch, New Zealand, on Friday, in what Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern called a terrorist attack. A male in his late 20s has been charged with murder and will appear in a Christchurch court Saturday morning, the police said. Three other people have been taken into custody, but it is unclear if they were involved. The gunman broadcast a livestream on Facebook of part of the attack. The horrifying footage shows him arriving at a mosque and firing on people inside until they lay motionless in corners. Before the shooting, someone appearing to be the gunman publicly posted links to a white supremacist manifesto and identified himself as a 28-year-old man born in Australia.Here’s our live briefing. After two long years of negotiations, lawmakers voted to delay the country’s departure from the E.U. beyond the original March 29 deadline. In a flurry of votes on several amendments, Parliament also rejected holding a second referendum on Brexit, and turned down an attempt to seize control of the process from Prime Minister Theresa May.What’s next? Mrs. May must get permission to postpone Brexit from E.U. officials next week, but that might only create new problems.Without an approved deal, it’s unclear how long the extension should be and what can be achieved in the extra time. Too short, and it would be impractical. Too long, and Britain would have to take part in European Parliament elections in May, which neither of the main political parties want.The Times obtained an account of radio messages before the crash of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, which went down almost immediately after takeoff from Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.A minute after departure, Captain Yared Getachew calmly reported a “flight control” problem, according to a person who reviewed air traffic communications. Three minutes in, in a panicky voice, he requested permission to return to the airport. For reasons that are unclear, the aircraft, a new Boeing 737 Max 8, appeared to have accelerated to speeds well beyond its safety limits. Air traffic controllers observed that it was going up and down by hundreds of feet.Then the plane disappeared from radar, crashing and killing all 157 people on board. Because of similarities with a plane crash off Indonesia in October that involved the Boeing 737 Max 8, the model has been grounded worldwide.Another angle: After the disaster in Indonesia, Boeing officials told American pilot unions that they planned to update the software for their 737 Max jets by about the end of 2018. Months later, the carriers are still waiting for a fix.Marian Kocner, a prominent Slovakian businessman, has been charged with ordering the murder of an investigative journalist, opening a new chapter in a crime that set off large protests and last year forced the resignation of Robert Fico, who was then the prime minister, and other top government officials. The journalist, Jan Kuciak, was fatally shot in his home in February 2018. His fiancée, Martina Kusnirova, was also killed there. Mr. Kuciak had been threatened by Mr. Kocner, a high-flying Slovakian businessman who was a subject of Mr. Kuciak’s reporting.In charging Mr. Kocner with paying a hit man $80,000 to kill the journalist, the authorities in Slovakia hope to regain a measure of the public trust that has been shattered by the killings and by the rife corruption that Mr. Kuciak and other reporters were working to expose. Mr. Kocner, who is currently in jail awaiting trial on unrelated fraud charges, has denied any illicit connections.  Looking ahead: The announcement of the charges came two days before a presidential election. The governing party — tainted by the scandal — is behind in the polls.U.S. Congress: The Senate, in a bipartisan rebuke, voted to overturn President Trump’s declaration of a national emergency at the southern border to fund his wall. The Senate vote was the first time Congress has blocked a presidential emergency declaration and almost certainly sets up Mr. Trump’s first veto. And the House voted 420-to-0 to demand the public release of the report that the special counsel, Robert Mueller, is assigned to submit to the attorney general. Climate change: Students in more than 100 countries will be protesting climate change today in what could be one of the largest demonstrations yet against global environmental policies. It all started with a shy 16-year-old in Sweden.E.U. Parliament: The president of the body, Antonio Tajani, incited outrage and apologized after putting a positive slant on Benito Mussolini, Italy’s fascist former leader. Germany: Volkswagen’s chief executive, Herbert Diess, apologized after using a phrase that echoed a Nazi-era slogan, “Arbeit macht frei,” or “Work sets you free,” emblazoned on the gates of Auschwitz. “Ebit macht frei,” he repeatedly told hundreds of managers at an internal company event. Ebit is an acronym for “earnings before interest and taxes.”Northern Ireland: Officials said that one former British soldier would be prosecuted on murder charges in connection with the massacre of unarmed civilians by British forces nearly 50 years ago in Londonderry, an event that came to be known as Bloody Sunday. Facebook: An executive regarded as the company’s No. 3 is leaving along with the head of its WhatsApp messaging service after disagreements with Mark Zuckerberg, the chief executive, over his plan to integrate Instagram, WhatsApp and Facebook Messenger into an overarching platform.Snow monsters: Every year, in a Japanese village in the Yamagata Prefecture, snow and ice draped over conifer trees create sculptural Godzilla-like figures, known as “juhyo,” that draw tourists from across the world. But climate change is beginning to diminish the phenomenon.Nigeria: The authorities called off a frantic, daylong search for survivors in a building that collapsed early Thursday in a part of Lagos known for poor urban planning. More than 35 people had been pulled from the slabs of concrete, and at least eight people have died. Balkans: Bosnia and Herzegovina’s security minister accused Croatia of concocting a plot intended to falsely paint Bosnia as a terrorist hotbed.2020 campaign: Beto O’Rourke, the former Texas congressman and Democrat who came close to unseating Senator Ted Cruz in the midterm elections last year, announced he was jumping into the 2020 presidential race, entering an already crowded field of diverse candidates.Ancient history: With an analysis of DNA preserved in ancient skeletons on the Iberian Peninsula, scientists are peering into human prehistory in the region.Head fake: Thieves stole “The Crucifixion,” a painting by the Flemish artist Pieter Brueghel the Younger, from a church in a Northern Italian town on Wednesday. Or rather, they stole a worthless copy of it. Italy’s military police and the priest had been tipped off to their plans and replaced the original.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: This Guinness pie recipe is worthy of a celebration. (You may want a walk after, or a nap.)Cutting out plastic when you’re grocery shopping is almost impossible. Writing a list and using a bit of imagination might help.Playing an instrument can be a rewarding hobby, and many apps can help get you started.A reader this week asked to hear more about E. Barrett Prettyman, whose name is on the courthouse described in Wednesday’s Back Story. The courthouse is where Paul Manafort, President Trump’s former campaign chairman, was sentenced.The Virginia-born Elijah Barrett Prettyman was a lawyer, professor and journalist before President Harry Truman nominated him to the prestigious U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He served from 1945 to 1962. From 1958 to 1960, he was chief judge.He was admired in judicial and governmental circles. Presidents Dwight Eisenhower and John F. Kennedy turned to him to resolve difficult legal issues. He overcame years of congressional resistance to effect changes in the D.C. court system.The U.S. Courthouse, home to the court he served on, was named for him in 1997, 16 years after his death.His son, E. Barrett Prettyman Jr., also had an illustrious legal career, playing a crucial backstage role in the Supreme Court’s unanimous school-desegregation decision.Andrea Kannapell, Briefings editor, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Elizabeth Williamson and Kenneth P. VogelWASHINGTON — The bad blood started early.In 2008, Neera Tanden, then a top aide on Hillary Clinton’s first presidential campaign, accompanied Mrs. Clinton to what was expected to be an easy interview at the Center for American Progress, the influential group founded by top Clinton aides. But Faiz Shakir, the chief editor of the think tank’s ThinkProgress website, asked Mrs. Clinton a question about the Iraq war, an issue dogging her candidacy because she had supported it.Ms. Tanden responded by circling back to Mr. Shakir after the interview and, according to a person in the room, punching him in the chest.“I didn’t slug him, I pushed him,” a still angry Ms. Tanden corrected in a recent interview.Ms. Tanden now leads the Center for American Progress, Mr. Shakir runs Bernie Sanders’s presidential campaign and the enmity between the two camps burst into the open last weekend. Mr. Sanders, angry about a video produced by ThinkProgress that ridicules his new status as one of the millionaires he has vilified on the campaign trail, sent a scorching letter to the center’s board, accusing Ms. Tanden of “maligning my staff and supporters and belittling progressive ideas.”The blowup is another reflection of the ideological divisions among Democrats, this time between a legacy Clinton organization and a liberal wing trying to move the party to the left to harness the energy of millennials. Mr. Sanders’s team remains convinced that the Democratic establishment worked behind the scenes to deprive him of the party’s nomination in 2016; his campaign has cast the group as beholden to corporate interests set on thwarting him in 2020.Ms. Tanden rejected that characterization and asserted in an email to Mr. Shakir that the center shares “the goals of unity.” Jodi Enda, the editor in chief of ThinkProgress, said that her website is editorially independent and that “we don’t have a favored candidate, and we don’t have a candidate who we disfavor.”Still, Ms. Tanden’s mother, Maya Tanden, says that her daughter “can be very aggressive.”“She’s not going to let anyone rule over her,” she said, “and she has loyalty to Hillary because Hillary is the one who made her.”“Those Bernie brothers are attacking her all the time, but she lets them have it, too,” Maya Tanden said. “She says Sanders got a pass” in 2016, “but he’s not getting a pass this time.”The Center for American Progress and its sister political arm, with a $60 million combined annual budget and 320 staff members, have played an outsize role in the Democratic Party for nearly two decades. Founded in 2003 by top advisers to Bill and Hillary Clinton, the organization has sought to rebrand itself as a brain trust for the anti-Trump resistance.Its donor rolls overlap substantially with those of the Clintons’ campaigns and foundation. The think tank has taken in millions from interests often criticized by liberals, including Wall Street financiers, big banks, Silicon Valley titans, foreign governments, defense contractors and the health care industry. Individual donors can ask to remain anonymous.Money to the Center for American Progress from the personal foundation of the Facebook creator Mark Zuckerberg surged to $665,000 in 2018 from $15,000 in 2017, while Facebook fended off scrutiny for mishandling users’ personal data, fueling violence and providing a platform for Russian election interference.Last year, the center got $1 million from the family foundation of Jonathan Lavine, a managing partner at Bain Capital, and at least $1 million from the tech industry’s Silicon Valley Community Foundation. It also received $225,000 from the private foundation of a Walmart heir, Sam Walton.Ms. Tanden, whose salary was $397,000 in 2018, was an unpaid adviser to Mrs. Clinton’s 2016 campaign while running the think tank, and was considered a candidate for a top White House job had Mrs. Clinton won the presidency. Ms. Tanden says she has founded six new policy-intensive groups as the center’s president and increased its annual budget by 25 percent.“That’s what she does — she shows up at rich people’s places because she needs funds from them,” Ms. Tanden’s mother said. “That place runs on Neera Tanden.”Tom Daschle, a lobbyist and former South Dakota senator who is the chairman of the Center for American Progress’s board, said he has full confidence in Ms. Tanden, who he said brings credibility, stature and “enormous experience both managerially and around the issues.” He added that “there are people that are not as supportive of Neera’s leadership, and that’s natural.”From 2016 through last year, the center accepted nearly $2.5 million from the United Arab Emirates to fund its National Security and International Policy initiative, according to previously unreported internal budget documents. From the start, the decision to solicit money from the United Arab Emirates, an ally of Saudi Arabia with a problematic human rights record, fanned internal dissent. A Center for American Progress spokeswoman said on Monday night that it had decided in December to stop taking money from the country.Tensions boiled over in October, after the Saudi-born Washington Post journalist Jamal Khashoggi was killed and dismembered at the order of Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia, according to an assessment by the C.I.A. Before the C.I.A.’s conclusion became public — but while the crown prince was widely suspected of ordering the killing — the center had pursued plans for a joint panel on “the U.S.-Saudi relationship in light of recent events,” and had invited the Saudi ambassador to the United States, Prince Khalid bin Salman, the crown prince’s brother, according to an internal email to executives.But the Saudi ambassador fled the country and the plan dissolved. Internal criticism of the Emirati donations leaked into the news media, prompting an in-house investigation that led to the firing of two staff members. One of them, Ken Gude, a longtime executive, is working with a lawyer on a wrongful dismissal lawsuit.In November 2015, after Ms. Tanden invited Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to a question-and-answer session at the center, a dozen staff members stood during an all-staff meeting and read a statement of protest. “Our goal is to promote humanity and shut down oppression and genocide and terrorism. Bringing in another head of state with a record of oppression would further push our mission away,” it read in part.In an email Ms. Tanden sent on the day of the Netanyahu visit, stolen and released by WikiLeaks, she told the think tank’s founder, John D. Podesta, that the “far left hates me” for hosting Mr. Netanyahu, but the invitation “may have sealed the deal with a new board member.” Ms. Tanden was wooing Mr. Lavine, a pro-Israel philanthropist.The next month, Ms. Tanden wrote a jubilant email to Mr. Podesta, telling him Mr. Lavine was joining the board. “So Netanyahu was worth it,” she added, with a smiley face emoji. Mr. Lavine no longer sits on the center’s board, but his foundation remains a big donor.“The Netanyahu event was arranged with the public and private support of the Obama administration, and the notion that it was done at the behest of any donor is preposterous,” a center spokeswoman said.“It’s difficult as a think tank to know exactly how to handle things” like the Netanyahu pressure, said Judd Legum, who was the founding editor of ThinkProgress. “You don’t want to only have people come in who agree with you,” he said, but “there were people who felt it wasn’t tough enough on Netanyahu, and I understood where they’re coming from.”Few rival Ms. Tanden for her bellicosity on Twitter. She has told James Zogby, a pro-Sanders pollster, that “an army will rise up against this bs”; threatened Starbucks’ chief executive, Howard Schultz, with a boycott if he runs for president; and traded insults for two years with Jill Stein, the 2016 Green Party presidential candidate viewed by Ms. Tanden as a spoiler.One recent night, Ms. Tanden feuded on Twitter with liberals over whether Mrs. Clinton condemned far-right hatemongers strongly enough more than two years ago. The online bickering raged for an hour, drawing trolls from both factions, when the woman originally targeted by Ms. Tanden’s tweets delivered a wake-up call: “neera, you’re responding to a graduate student on Twitter at 1:40 am.”Ms. Tanden, who rallied weeping staff members after Mrs. Clinton’s loss, has expertise on domestic policy that dates to the early 1990s. As an Obama administration official, she worked to pass the Affordable Care Act, and during the Trump administration, she has called the center to the ramparts during Republicans’ efforts to repeal it.Under Ms. Tanden’s leadership, the center started a lobbying and social media campaign to save the health care act, including building a web portal that relayed the stories of nearly 3,000 people whose coverage was in danger. Now, as many Democratic presidential candidates drift left toward “Medicare for all” plans like Mr. Sanders’s, the Center for American Progress is pushing its own plan, which reserves a role for private insurance companies, unlike the Sanders proposal.Last week, the center held an off-record briefing and made follow-up contacts with reporters, picking apart the details of Mr. Sanders’s plan. In a fund-raising email to supporters on Sunday night, Mr. Sanders said the briefing was an effort by the think tank “to stop Medicare for All and our progressive agenda.”Mr. Legum said that “from the beginning, the problem was there are all these little factions on the left, each caring about their own issues and their own agenda — and CAP was supposed to be a big umbrella.”Now, he added, “We’re in another period where there’s new energy, new perspectives and people who are once again skeptical of CAP.”Ms. Tanden acknowledged tensions with what she called “millennial agitators” in her party, but blamed Mr. Trump, who made “crazy, radical ideas seem more normal,” she said in the interview.Maya Tanden, Ms. Tanden’s mother, said her daughter was “sick of” the nonstop fund-raising and political squabbling. “She said, ‘Another two years and I’m gone, I don’t care what I do,’” Maya Tanden said.Neera Tanden said she has no such plans.“When Trump won, I was one of the better prepared people to deal with his victory. I righted this ship to be an effective response to him,” she said. “A place to come up with the ideas that would formulate the next generation of ideas.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day. By Penn Bullock(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning. The U.S. partial government shutdown is over (for now), Venezuela faces an international ultimatum, and the Afghan war could be near its end. Here’s the latest: President Trump temporarily reopened the government, but the clock is ticking. He warned that he was ready to shut down parts of the government again or bypass Congress altogether if Republicans and Democrats can’t agree on funding for a border wall by Feb. 15. The question in the meantime is whether the divided government can produce any results.On the same day the president bowed to pressure, the special counsel indicted a decades-long adviser of his, Roger Stone, and revealed the most direct link yet between the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks’ effort to release hacked Democratic Party emails.Details: Here’s a profile of Mr. Stone — an eccentric Nixon apostle and self-described dirty trickster — and an explanation of what his indictment means. And here is a visual representation of the Trump campaign’s extensive contacts with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks. Analysis: The shutdown and the Stone indictment may have hurt the president’s leverage. According to some estimates, the American economy lost at least $6 billion during the 35-day stalemate. And Mr. Trump’s poll numbers were down, stirring concerns among Republican leaders about his ability to navigate the next two years.European countries including Britain, France, Germany, the Netherlands and Spain urged President Nicolás Maduro to schedule new elections within eight days.If Mr. Maduro doesn’t commit to fresh elections, the European governments say they will recognize the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, as interim president.Analysis: The ultimatum presents a new layer of uncertainty in a deepening crisis. Mr. Guaidó has urged protesters to keep the pressure on the government “if they dare to kidnap me.”Mr. Maduro, appearing to be striking a conciliatory tone, backed down from demanding that all American diplomats leave the country. Over the past year, the Trump administration has embarked on a global campaign to pressure allies to prevent Huawei and other Chinese companies from helping build out 5G networks.The U.S. has suggested to Poland that future deployments of American troops could hinge on whether the country works with Huawei. And in Germany, American officials warned that working with Huawei could pose a security risk to NATO.Why: The U.S. believes that whoever controls the high-speed 5G internet networks will have an economic, military and intelligence edge for much of this century. The Trump administration therefore calculates that Beijing — and companies perceived to be working for the Chinese government — must be shut out.What’s next? The U.S. campaign may complicate the round of trade talks with China that begin in Washington this week, particularly as Beijing seeks to free Huawei’s chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, who was arrested in Canada at America’s request.The U.S. and the Taliban wrapped up six days of negotiations to end the 17-year conflict in Afghanistan. Both sides reported progress — a first in nine years of intermittent peace efforts.Details: Though much remains to be ironed out, the deal would kick off a phased withdrawal of American troops in exchange for a Taliban cease-fire. The Taliban would also have to pledge not to allow international terrorist groups to use Afghanistan as a planning hub. How the Taliban would share power with the Afghan government remains to be resolved.Caution: Most observers don’t believe Afghan forces can stand up against the Taliban without American support.Fear: The idea of a U.S. troop withdrawal worries Afghan women, who fear that their rights will be taken away.  The toll: The war’s toll has been immense: At least 62,000 Afghan military and police officers have been killed, along with possibly as many Taliban — and more than 24,000 Afghan civilians over the last decade alone. One photographer set out to capture the makeshift prosthetics some Afghans use.Coming this week: Britain’s Parliament votes on amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit plan, and the U.S. Federal Reserve meets (but will probably not raise interest rates).Germany: A panel of various interest groups laid out a plan to end the country’s use of coal power within two decades.Brazil: A dam collapse that left 58 dead and 305 missing is the deadliest mining accident in the country’s history. Alarm over a second dam spread panic and raised outrage about the industry’s perceived impunity. Singapore: The city-state has landmarks of Brutalist architecture — built by a 1970s movement partly influenced by a similar one in postwar Britain — and they are incubating gritty, artsy subcultures that belie the image of tidy streets and often-authoritarian governance. Some of the landmarks are on the verge of being sold, prompting calls to save them. Facebook: Mark Zuckerberg plans to merge the social media platform’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Messenger — at a time when the company has been scarred by scandal. The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps but will allow users to communicate across the platforms.The Holocaust: On her way to visit Auschwitz, our reporter found “Heil Hitler” signs and other Nazi swag at a flea market in Poland, where regulations on such sales are rarely enforced.Spain: The authorities said they had found the body of a 2-year-old boy who fell into a well nearly two weeks ago. Gandhi: Around the world, the man who led India into independence is still revered as a peaceful revolutionary. But his halo has dimmed for the Hindu right and lower castes.Australian Open: Novak Djokovic beat Rafael Nadal for his 15th Grand Slam title, and Naomi Osaka became the first singles player from Japan to clinch a No. 1 ranking globally after defeating Petra Kvitova for her second Grand Slam title.In memoriam: Michel Legrand, the French pianist, arranger and composer of hundreds of film scores and songs, among them “The Windmills of Your Mind,” died at 86. #ThankGodIt’sMonday? A workplace culture has emerged in recent years that glorifies the hustle and encourages employees to put in long hours. Our technology reporter considers whether that’s sustainable.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: For a quick dinner, make soba noodles into a salad with edamame, carrots and spinach.You can silence notifications on your phone without missing the important ones.Intense exercise could reduce your interest in food, some studies suggest.Happy Data Privacy Day!Or maybe not so happy. In the years since the celebration was born in Europe and then adopted in the U.S. and Canada, digital privacy has become a mainstream concern.As someone who covers personal tech for a living, I’ve lost count of how many times hackers have breached companies’ computer systems and stolen customers’ credit card numbers, and worse. (Thanks, Equifax, Marriott and Facebook.)Digital privacy is no joke. If you do one thing to protect your data today — or this week, or this year — set aside a few hours to beef up the strength of your passwords.Make sure every password you use for logging in to a site or an app is unique and complex. Password management apps like 1Password or LastPass make it easy, by letting you use one master password to reach a vault of all of your passwords.Trust me, you’ll feel a lot better.Brian X. Chen, the lead consumer technology writer at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings.Check out this page to find a Morning Briefing for your region. (In addition to our European edition, we have Australian, Asian and U.S. editions.)Sign up here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights, and here’s our full range of free newsletters.What would you like to see here? Contact us at europebriefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byFor years, BuzzFeed seemed to be leading the journalism industry toward a brave new future. Now that it has stumbled, the way ahead looks more old-school than ever.By Edmund LeeIllustration by Andrew Sondern/The New York TimesThe digital publishing industry took a big hit in recent days, when more than 1,000 employees were laid off at BuzzFeed, AOL, Yahoo and HuffPost. Vice Media started the process of laying off some 250 workers on Friday, and Mic, a site aimed at younger readers, axed much of its staff two months ago before a competitor bought it in a fire sale. Coupled with recent layoffs at Gannett, the company behind USA Today and other dailies nationwide, the crisis in the digital sphere suggested that the journalism business was damned if it embraced innovation and damned if it didn’t.The cuts at BuzzFeed were the most alarming. Wasn’t this the company that was supposed to have it all figured out? Didn’t its team of wizards, led by the M.I.T.-trained chief executive, Jonah Peretti, know tricks of the digital trade that lay beyond the imagination of fusty old print publishers?Chris Hayes, the author and MSNBC anchor, summed up the bleak outlook with a tweet that asked, “What if there is literally no profitable model for digital news?”The in-the-moment doomsaying was understandable. But look past the gloom, and a complicated narrative emerges that does not lend itself to a one-size-fits-all interpretation of What Went Wrong or a handy forecast of journalism’s future.While leading digital publishers have resorted to harsh measures, legacy titles such as The Washington Post, The Atlantic, The New Yorker and The New York Times have seen growth as they accommodate the habits of their increasingly digitally oriented readers.At the same time, a digital-native business, Vox Media, the owner of The Verge and Eater, turned a profit last year, its first as a large company, according to two people with knowledge of the matter who were not authorized to discuss it publicly. And a more recent digital upstart, Axios, a buzzy site for Beltway insiders created by the founders of Politico, expects a profit in 2019, according to its chief executive, Jim VandeHei.Even BuzzFeed may hit its financial marks this year. If it does, the reason will most likely be a combination of old-school business methods tried elsewhere (including layoffs), rather than its ability to crack some esoteric digital code.It was simpler in the days of print. Even when radio and television laid waste to certain newspapers and magazines, the industry as a whole racked up steady profits. Twentieth-century readers were more or less unchanging in their habits, so media executives did not have to revise their business models much from year to year.That has changed, to say the least.Mr. Peretti seemed to be on the right track with his reliance on sponsored posts to generate revenue before his reluctant pivot to banner ads last year. That money encouraged him to stick to his idea of creating free content that readers can’t resist sharing on social media. Hedging his bets, he varied BuzzFeed’s money stream by selling branded cookware in association with Wal-Mart and opening a toy store in Manhattan.The company’s revenue grew more than 15 percent in 2018 — not quite enough to stave off Mr. Peretti’s decision to cut about 220 of BuzzFeed’s roughly 1,500 employees. As he put it in a recent staff memo, “Unfortunately, revenue growth by itself isn’t enough to be successful in the long run.”Ben Thompson, an analyst who has become a favorite among the Silicon Valley set, argued that BuzzFeed had inadvertently devalued its content by mostly relying on the kindness of digital giants to distribute its articles.Facebook’s changes to its News Feed in recent years increased the visibility of posts from your aunts and uncles while playing down articles from professional publishers. That was no good for sites like BuzzFeed.“The only way to build a thriving business in a space dominated by an aggregator is to go around them, not to work with them,” Mr. Thompson wrote in his Jan. 28 newsletter.In BuzzFeed’s youth, Facebook was not the dominant traffic driver it is today, and online sharing was just as likely to occur away from social media platforms. (Remember email?) Five years into its existence, in 2011, the site got newsier, with the addition of Politico’s Ben Smith as its editor in chief, along with a team of editors and reporters. In 2015, Mr. Thompson, the analyst, called BuzzFeed “the most important news organization in the world.”After that, Mr. Peretti adjusted his approach again. He determined that Facebook had already built the pipes for distribution, so instead of trying to amass audiences around a single venue, like BuzzFeed.com, he went where the audience was: Facebook.That was back when Facebook was considered a natural ally for media organizations seeking millions of online readers, and before Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, was made to testify before skeptical lawmakers in Washington and Brussels.So publishers didn’t balk when Facebook asked them — as part of its plan to take on YouTube — to go big on video. Companies like BuzzFeed, Vox Media and Refinery29 had an additional incentive to go along with Facebook’s request: the ad dollars that had shifted online as viewers started to favor streaming services over traditional television.The plan proved difficult to monetize, however. Facebook wanted brevity, but it defied common sense to load a 15-second commercial in front of a 30-second clip, Mr. Peretti said in a November interview with The Times.In 2017, Facebook created a new section, Facebook Watch, that featured longer videos. The company also opened more of those videos to advertising last August. For publishers, it was an improvement, but still not enough.“They need to make a lot more progress to truly compensate for the value that media companies are creating for them,” Mr. Peretti said in the interview. He compared Facebook to cable operators like Comcast, which pay programmers to carry their shows. “Except the compensation isn’t like cable,” he added.As television viewers continued their migration to the web, big TV companies like NBCUniversal, Turner Broadcasting and Discovery Communications followed them, plowing hundreds of millions of dollars into digital companies. Now they would like to see a return on their investments. And they are getting impatient.It wasn’t supposed to be this hard for digital publishers.In 2011, when The Times drew criticism for its decision to charge online readers, creating a so-called paywall, BuzzFeed was taking off, thanks to its knack for harnessing the power of social networks. In that context, the paywall strategy struck media gurus as the last-ditch gambit of a slow-moving stalwart, and the conventional wisdom was that digital mastersmiths would soon outperform or perhaps even vanquish their print-beholden rivals.By the end of 2018, the picture looked vastly different. BuzzFeed generated more than $300 million in sales, while still bleeding money, and The Times was on a pace to exceed $650 million in digital revenue.A stormy sociopolitical climate played to the strengths of seasoned media companies. John Wagner, who handles ad spending for publisher properties for the media agency PHD, said that during the Trump presidency, advertisers had favored venerable publications like The Times, The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal. News sites of 21st-century vintage, on the other hand, have to keep proving themselves.“BuzzFeed has really good offerings,” Mr. Wagner said. But its listicles and quizzes, he added, may eventually fall out of favor. “Consumers are fickle, and they’ll move on to the next thing,” he said.Mr. VandeHei of Axios said media companies needed more than digital savvy to make it in the current cutthroat environment. “I think media is still a great business, if you run it like a damn business,” he said in an email.Mr. VandeHei recited a litany of plagues on the digital houses, such as taking investments from venture capitalists expecting big returns in a short time or tying audience growth to platforms like Facebook.With its reliance on sponsored newsletters, Axios has a business model wildly different from BuzzFeed’s. (“I’m an outlier,” Mr. VandeHei said.) But while a comparison of the two companies may not be apples to apples, the debate over journalism’s future comes down to which business model works better — or works at all.Axios generated more than $24 million in revenue last year while incurring an overall loss of $56,000, Mr. VandeHei said. He credited a simple reason for its success: “The audience for high-quality content is huge and voracious and growing.” And the company’s focus on newsletters means it is unaffected by the whims of Facebook.The Information, a San Francisco tech-news site founded in 2013, is another digital publisher that adopted an old-fashioned business model from the start: paid subscriptions.“Journalism has been paid for since its early days,” Jessica Lessin, the founder and chief executive of The Information, said in an interview. From her perspective, the tendency of news media executives to give their content away once they moved to the web was the result of something like amnesia. “We just forgot,” she said. “We all went online and threw that out.”Ms. Lessin, a former reporter for The Wall Street Journal, declined to disclose the exact number of readers who pay $399 annually, but said the publication had “tens of thousands of subscribers.” While that audience is relatively modest, it allowed her to double her staff last year to 26 journalists.“Subscription is a great business,” Ms. Lessin said. “We are covering and expanding at the pace we want to expand off subscription, since that revenue can be very predictable.”While BuzzFeed and HuffPost have remained anti-paywall, and Axios and The Information have depended on sponsorships or subscriptions, Vox Media has found a middle way.Jim Bankoff, the company’s chief executive, is more business oriented than his peers and rarely calls attention to himself. A former AOL executive, he has explored areas outside of traditional advertising as part of his approach. One result was a production agreement with Netflix for a series based on Vox’s explanatory journalism, “Explained.” The company has also generated revenue by building its conference business, getting into podcasting and licensing its content management system, Chorus.Last year, its revenue increased 20 percent to around $185 million, for a modest profit. But that doesn’t mean Vox has stumbled onto some wild innovation.“We don’t see ourselves as a digital media company,” Mr. Bankoff said. “I mean, is anybody only just that now? We’re a modern media company.”Jaclyn Peiser contributed reporting.Edmund Lee covers the media industry as it grapples with changes from Silicon Valley. Before joining The Times he was the managing editor at Vox Media’s Recode.  @edmundlee Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Ashley Calloway-Blatch and Lance BoothHere are the week’s top stories, and a look ahead.1. The partial government shutdown is over — for now.President Trump signed a bill on Friday reopening the federal government for three weeks, but he said he was ready to renew the confrontation or to bypass Congress altogether if Republicans and Democrats didn’t agree on funds for a wall at the southern border by Feb. 15.The bill opened the way to paying the 800,000 federal workers who had been furloughed or had been working without pay. We talked with more than a dozen federal workers and contractors about how they survived the 35-day shutdown, and of the uncertainty they now face.According to Standard & Poor’s, the U.S. economy lost at least $6 billion during the shutdown — more than the $5.7 billion Mr. Trump was holding out for.Have you been keeping up with the headlines? Test your knowledge with our news quiz. And here’s the front page of our Sunday paper, the Sunday Review from Opinion and our crossword puzzles.____2. Roger Stone, a former political adviser to President Trump, was indicted in the special counsel’s investigation after F.B.I. agents wearing ballistic vests and brandishing guns arrested him in a predawn raid of his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.The indictment states that a top Trump campaign official dispatched Mr. Stone, above, to get information from WikiLeaks about hacked Democratic emails, revealing the most direct link yet between parallel efforts by the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton during the 2016 election using material stolen by Russians.Mr. Stone was charged with seven counts, including obstruction, making false statements and witness tampering.We mapped out the known interactions that Mr. Trump and at least 17 campaign officials and advisers had with Russian citizens and WikiLeaks, or their intermediaries, during the 2016 presidential campaign and transition.Some Republicans are recalculating Mr. Trump’s political prospects, given the deep damage he suffered from the shutdown and the possibility that the Russia investigation will grow only more painful for him.____3. Juan Guaidó, Venezuela’s opposition leader, attended a rally Friday, above, in his first public appearance since he declared himself interim president of the country. He told supporters to maintain pressure on the authorities “if they dare to kidnap me.”At the same time, President Nicolás Maduro, who had been furiously describing Mr. Guaidó as the lackey of an American-backed coup plot, appeared to strike a more conciliatory approach. On Saturday, Mr. Maduro backed down from demanding that American diplomats leave the country this weekend.Opposition lawmakers and analysts said Mr. Maduro may sense that loyalty to him among the security forces may be slipping as support grows for Mr. Guaidó, who earned the official recognition of the United States and more than 20 other countries.Our interviews with current and former military officers reveal a complicated struggle within the ranks over which leader to back.____4. The authorities in Florida  released the identities on Thursday of three of the five women who were killed by a gunman at a SunTrust Bank in Sebring, above, the day before.The authorities said the gunman made the women lie face down on the floor before he shot them in the back of the head, and then called the police to admit what he had done.The suspect, Zephen A. Xaver, 21, was arrested on Wednesday and charged with five counts of first-degree premeditated murder. The police said they didn’t understand Mr. Xaver’s motive; the Sebring police chief said Mr. Xaver didn’t know the victims and had no known connection to the SunTrust branch.Relatives of the two other victims asked that their names be withheld from the public, the police chief said, adding that he would honor those requests under the terms of a new crime victims’ law in Florida.____5. Record numbers of Americans understand that climate change is real and say the issue is personally important to them. Above, search teams after the Camp Fire in Paradise, Calif., last year.In a survey taken late last year, some 73 percent said global warming was happening — a jump of 10 percentage points from 2015 and three points since March. “I’ve never seen jumps in some of the key indicators like this,” one of the researchers said.Conclusive data has been accumulating, including recent studies showing unexpectedly rapid melting in Greenland and the Arctic, and far quicker ocean warming than previously understood.____6. Action at the Supreme Court. The justices voted 5 to 4 on Tuesday to allow the Trump administration to bar most transgender people from serving in the military while cases challenging the policy make their way to the court. Above, Jody Davis, a transgender woman who is trying to rejoin the National Guard.The court also said on Tuesday that it would review a New York City gun law, its first Second Amendment case in nearly a decade.The justices took no action on the Trump administration’s plans to shut down a program that shields some 700,000 young undocumented immigrants from deportation, which almost certainly means the court won’t hear the administration’s challenge in its current term.____7. Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s chief executive, above, plans to integrate the social network’s vast messaging services: WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger.The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps, but their underlying technical infrastructure will be unified, according to four people involved in the effort.This could redefine how more than 2.6 billion people use the apps to connect with one another, our technology reporter notes, all while strengthening Facebook’s grip on users and raising antitrust, privacy and security questions.____8. In the world of entertainment: James McAvoy hosted “Saturday Night Live” this week, which featured Steve Martin in a pinstriped suit as Roger Stone.Now that the dust has settled from Tuesday’s announcement of Oscar nominees, our columnist examines what we can glean from who made it in and who didn’t.And our critic-at-large Wesley Morris talks about the academy’s obsession with racial reconciliation fantasies, from 1989’s “Driving Miss Daisy” to the recent “Green Book” and “The Upside.”____9. Novak Djokovic defeated Rafael Nadal for his seventh Australian Open championship this morning. It was the latest triumph in a thrilling career revival.And Naomi Osaka, above, bested Petra Kvitova in a riveting women’s final on Saturday.Her victory in Melbourne, after winning the U.S. Open in September, made Ms. Osaka the first woman since Jennifer Capriati in 2001 to win her first two major titles back to back.More into football? The week is going to be a big buildup to Super Bowl LIII, when the New England Patriots and the Los Angeles Rams face off.____10. Finally, don’t miss our Best Weekend Reads.This week, we talk to a laundry specialist who has washed clothes on tour for the likes of Madonna, U2 and Beyoncé; look at how the growing noise in the world’s oceans is threatening wildlife; and examine a culture of discrimination and retaliation at a highly classified Energy Department site in Nevada.We also have the tale of Kenneth Griffin, a hedge-fund billionaire who just paid a record $238 million for a penthouse he may rarely live in.For more suggestions on what to read, watch and listen to, may we suggest these nine new books our editors liked, a glance at the latest small-screen recommendations from Watching, and our music critics’ latest playlist.Have a great week.Your Weekend Briefing is published Sundays at 6 a.m. Eastern.You can sign up here to get our Morning Briefings by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning, or here to receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Remy Tumin and Marcus Payadue(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.) Good evening. Here’s the latest.1. President Trump agreed to reopen the federal government for three weeks while negotiations continued over border security, backing down after a monthlong standoff with Democrats over funding for his border wall.The decision paved the way for Congress to pass spending bills as soon as Friday. The stopgap measure will restore normal operations at a series of federal agencies until Feb. 15 and begin paying the 800,000 federal workers who have been furloughed or forced to work for free for 35 days.The plan includes no money for the wall and was essentially the same approach Mr. Trump rejected at the end of December. But he cautioned that the cease-fire might be only temporary.“We really have no choice but to build a powerful wall or steel barrier,” Mr. Trump said in the Rose Garden. “If we don’t get a fair deal from Congress, the government will either shut down on Feb. 15, or I will use the powers afforded to me under the laws and Constitution of the United States to address this emergency.”Airport delays this morning added to the urgency of a solution. La Guardia Airport in New York was closed to arriving flights, and a shortage of air traffic controllers triggered significant delays across the Northeast._____2. The special counsel, Robert Mueller, revealed the most direct link yet between the parallel efforts of the Trump campaign and WikiLeaks to damage Hillary Clinton’s presidential bid.In a seven-count indictment against Roger Stone, above, an informal adviser to President Trump, the special counsel disclosed evidence that a top campaign official had instructed Mr. Stone to get information from WikiLeaks about thousands of hacked Democratic emails. That effort began well after it was widely reported that Russian intelligence operatives were behind the hack.The indictment makes no mention of whether Mr. Trump played a role, though Mr. Mueller did leave a curious clue about how high in the campaign the effort reached: A senior campaign official “was directed” by an unnamed person to contact Mr. Stone about additional WikiLeaks releases that might hurt the Clinton campaign, according to the court document.Who is Roger Stone, anyway? Here’s what we know about him and his colorful career._____3. Venezuela’s opposition leader made his first public appearance since he declared himself president, and told supporters to keep pressure on the authorities “if they dare to kidnap me.”The rally was peaceful and there was no indication Juan Guaidó would be arrested, as many feared.At the same time, President Nicolás Maduro took a more conciliatory approach than before and called for dialogue. The request appeared to signal that the standoff between the government and Mr. Guaidó may be shifting.Opposition talks with the military may be a factor. Venezuela’s top brass swore allegiance to Mr. Maduro, but an opposition lawmaker said her colleagues were holding discreet talks with military leaders in hopes that they could build enough support to get large factions to switch sides._____4. Jennifer Glover was assaulted by her fellow guards at a nuclear site in Nevada, she said.And instead of responding to her complaints, the government contractor she worked for eventually fired her.The encounter followed months of sexual harassment that she said began soon after she was hired. Even after reporting the abuse, she continued to face harassment and intimidation. She was reprimanded for calling out sick — to avoid her attackers, she said — and ordered to undergo psychiatric evaluations.“Work went from being so exciting to being a nightmare,” she said._____5. Mark Zuckerberg once vowed to keep WhatsApp and Instagram independent. Now he’s changing course to keep their users inside Facebook’s ecosystem.Facebook’s chief executive has mandated that the social network’s three messaging services — the third is Facebook Messenger — be knitted together. The three services will continue operating as stand-alone apps, but their underlying messaging infrastructure will be unified.The changes also raise questions of data privacy because of how user information may be shared among the services. Today, WhatsApp allows people to sign up with only a phone number. By contrast, Facebook and Facebook Messenger ask for users’ real names.Separately, Amazon’s new facial recognition technology had more difficulty identifying the gender of female and darker-skinned faces than similar services from IBM and Microsoft._____6. Can paid parental leave be too much of a good thing?The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is cutting its unusually generous paid leave in half — to six months — because yearlong leaves were impairing its work, it said. It is also adding a $20,000 stipend for new parents to spend on child care costs.The Gates Foundation’s experience highlights the challenges of devising effective family policies, especially in the U.S. — the only industrialized country not to offer paid leave.On top of questions about whether leave should be mandatory and who should pay for it, there has been little agreement on the right length of time. International evidence points to some answers: Around six months seems to be the magic number. And paid leave is not enough: Financial assistance for child care has a bigger effect on women’s ability to keep working._____7. It was nothing but a box of paperwork.In 1979, a Navy man credited with starting the quirky Hawaiian Iron Man Triathlon was reassigned to the mainland. He was looking for someone to run the third edition of the race — and handed off some papers to a couple who said they would do it.They went on to make the Ironman into an iconic test of endurance and one of the world’s premier sports brands. A Chinese conglomerate paid $650 million for it in 2015. Above, bikes awaiting their riders at the 2018 Ironman World Championship Triathlon.And because of that box, all these years later, the fight over who rightfully owns the race endures.Separately, have you noticed the N.B.A.’s scoring explosion this season? It has to do with the league’s emphasis on pace and 3-pointers, combined with an edict to make defenders back off._____8. Roy Wood Jr. is best known as a correspondent on “The Daily Show With Trevor Noah.”But he has made a niche for himself as one of the country’s foremost comic voices on social issues — especially those affecting African-Americans.He almost didn’t make it this far: He grew up among gang members in Birmingham, Ala., and was arrested in his junior year of college for stolen credit cards. His probation officer encouraged him to keep doing comedy. Tonight, his first Comedy Central special premieres.In the special, Mr. Wood jokes that the national anthem controversy is especially absurd because the tune is based on a British song: “Now, you’re running around telling stolen people in a stolen land that they should stand for a stolen song?”And no matter how much time you have this weekend, we have TV recommendations for you._____9. Ninety-nine percent of the U.S. population lives under light-polluted skies.After one math teacher from Washington, D.C., visited the country’s first International Dark Sky Reserve, 1,400 square miles in Idaho, he wondered how to make sure people know places like it existed.“A lot of people who live in an urban setting and who look like me will never get to see the beauty of our world in its natural state,” he told our graphic journalist.“There is no lock on the door. Nobody is trying to keep people of color out. But not having the opportunity to know about it, that’s a lock.”_____10. Finally, let’s play catch-up.Do you know which country’s economy grew 6.6 percent last year, its slowest pace of growth since 1990? What the Brexit “backstop” is all about?Test your knowledge of the week’s headlines.Have a relaxing weekend._____Your Evening Briefing is posted at 6 p.m. Eastern.And don’t miss Your Morning Briefing. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning.Want to catch up on past briefings? You can browse them here.What did you like? What do you want to see here? Let us know at briefing@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Matt Flegenheimer and Alexander BurnsFor a moment in August, an event hall in Texas teemed with hope, taquitos and unity.It was a border-town stop for Beto O’Rourke’s Senate campaign, but another Democratic politician commanded particular attention: Gina Ortiz Jones, a history-making congressional candidate — gay, Filipina-American, an Iraq war veteran — hoping to turn a majority-Hispanic district blue. “Really special person,” Mr. O’Rourke said, as Ms. Jones stood and waved.But soon, a county chairwoman posed an uncomfortable question. Mr. O’Rourke had not endorsed Ms. Jones. In fact, he had elevated her Republican opponent, Representative Will Hurd, with frequent praise and, most memorably, a live-streamed bipartisan road trip that helped jump-start their midterm campaigns. Would Mr. O’Rourke support the Democrat?He would not.“This is a place where my politics and my job and my commitment to this country come into conflict,” Mr. O’Rourke said. “I’m going to put country over party.”Some supporters of Ms. Jones saw it differently: Beto O’Rourke was once again putting Beto O’Rourke first.Five months later, as Mr. O’Rourke considers a run for president, his decision not to back Ms. Jones lays bare the go-it-alone streak that has defined his career, separating him from a modern Democratic Party that has prized near-uniform opposition to Republicans in Washington. While supporters view his above-the-fray message as the foundation of his appeal, he has left important Democratic constituencies wondering if he can be fully trusted as an ally.“Beto-first politics,” said Jess Morales Rocketto, a Democratic operative who worked for Hillary Clinton in 2016. “He was concerned about Beto. I’m not sure he was concerned about building the future of Democratic politics.”In Texas’ 23rd Congressional District, his choice was more than symbolic. Mr. Hurd won by fewer than 1,000 votes, and many voters and local activists hold Mr. O’Rourke — whose success helped lift down-ballot candidates across the state — largely responsible for Ms. Jones’s defeat.“All I kept thinking was, wait, Beto is supposed to be helping us because he’s a Democrat,” said Rosey R. Abuabara, the leader of TX-23 Indivisible, which worked to oust Mr. Hurd. “I really felt like Beto was just getting in my way.”Mr. O’Rourke’s aides noted that his campaign — and its sprawling grass-roots operation — had been enormously helpful to the party’s cause, sharing voter information with fellow Democrats, opening hundreds of campaign offices and inviting other candidates to speak at his well-attended events.“Beto fully invested in building the future of Democratic politics across Texas,” his spokesman, Chris Evans, said in an email, adding that the campaign’s efforts would serve as a foundation “for all future Democratic campaigns in the state.”Yet even some admirers of Mr. O’Rourke have struggled to reconcile the snub of Ms. Jones, particularly in a year when female and nonwhite candidates like her helped lift Democrats to a House majority. Though Mr. O’Rourke stayed neutral, Ms. Jones drew high-wattage help in the race, including from prominent Texas Democrats like Julián Castro, the former housing secretary who is running for president, and Wendy Davis, the former candidate for governor and abortion-rights activist.Asked whether Mr. O’Rourke had a special responsibility to support a female candidate of color in this Democratic moment, Ms. Davis sounded almost anguished.“It’s really hard to say,” she said, adding that she did not mean to “back-seat drive” a friend’s decision-making. “I would feel that special duty. I personally would feel that. Beto’s not me, and I’m not Beto.”Mr. O’Rourke’s very presence as a would-be presidential contender for 2020 is an issue of heated debate within the party. He is a prolific fund-raiser who proved he can energize younger voters, and some early polls place him third behind Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Senator Bernie Sanders, well ahead of many more decorated politicians. But he is also a relatively inexperienced lawmaker who lost his Senate race against Ted Cruz.For close watchers of Mr. O’Rourke’s rise, his approach to Ms. Jones’s contest captured the twin pillars of his political worldview: He has an instinct for performative campaigning, reaching for multiplatform connection to voters but often lurching toward extreme oversharing. (Mr. O’Rourke was widely mocked recently after turning the camera on his own dental appointment.)And he has often defied the wishes of his fellow Democrats, especially traditional party leaders, who have eyed him warily since he challenged a Democratic incumbent in 2012 to reach Congress in the first place.Through a fluke of weather, timing and internet trendsetting, Mr. Hurd sits at the intersection of it all. Until March 2017, he and Mr. O’Rourke had been friendly enough as district neighbors, but never especially close. Then, after a snowstorm grounded their flights from Texas to Washington, Mr. O’Rourke suggested they drive instead — and record themselves for all 1,600 miles, answering questions from followers along the way.Alone in their rented Chevy Impala, they sang along to Willie Nelson, hashed out health care and trade policy and made a late-night doughnut run in Tennessee, attracting hundreds of thousands of viewers and wide-scale media coverage. Newt Gingrich called in to salute them. Mark Zuckerberg chimed in approvingly on Facebook.“Our party leadership is probably not super excited that we’re doing this,” Mr. O’Rourke said at one point.He was half right. Democrats in Washington, who had eyed Mr. Hurd’s seat as a prime pickup opportunity after Mrs. Clinton carried the district in 2016, winced at the sight of Mr. O’Rourke bolstering Mr. Hurd’s reputation for bipartisanship. Republicans were delighted to have a high-profile showcase for Mr. Hurd’s personality and moderate image.His congenial political brand helped him establish a consistent lead over Ms. Jones in private polling, giving pause to some national groups, like the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, about investing in the race.“It was a huge boost for us,” Matt Gorman, the communications director for the National Republican Congressional Committee during the midterms, said of the road trip. “That thing went totally viral.”Mark McKinnon, a veteran of Texas politics who was an adviser to George W. Bush, said by email that the road trip became a “life preserver for Hurd and launchpad for Beto.”Mr. O’Rourke and his team seemed to recognize this. The ride registered as his campaign’s unofficial kickoff. And he was quick to invoke his relationship with Mr. Hurd, to deflect attacks from Mr. Cruz that he was too far left for Texas, and to burnish his self-styled standing as a high-minded antidote to the Capitol’s seemingly intransigent partisanship.“I know how disappointing it is to people,” Mr. O’Rourke said in an interview last summer, explaining his decision not to support Ms. Jones. “It’s disappointing for very legitimate, really important reasons. Like, I also want to be in the majority.”He added that Ms. Jones would make an excellent congresswoman if elected.Party officials and activists kept up the pressure, cornering him at rallies and fund-raisers, including one in San Antonio where Mr. O’Rourke raised his right hand in a mock ceremony and pledged not to make Mr. Hurd “look cool” even as he refused to oppose him.“Basically I told him he needed to dance with who brung him,” said Mary Bell Lockhart, the chairwoman of the Brewster County Democratic Party. “And it was primarily Democrats.”Mr. O’Rourke’s supporters insist he can be counted on to pursue Democratic priorities, while noting that his relationship with Mr. Hurd allowed the two to collaborate on shared causes like border policy. (Mr. Hurd has been a rare Republican opposing the construction of a wall.)But Mr. O’Rourke’s history with the party is more complicated than it appeared in a binary race against Mr. Cruz, whom Democrats could generally agree to loathe. He was known in Washington for declining to pay dues to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee. In 2016, he voted against Nancy Pelosi to lead the Democratic caucus, supporting Tim Ryan, a centrist from Ohio.“We are all products of our environment,” said Pete Gallego, a former Democratic congressman who lost his seat to Mr. Hurd in 2014. “He has found tremendous success by shaking things up and by not being part of the party apparatus.”After Ms. Jones won the Democratic nomination for the seat, she and Mr. O’Rourke had a cordial conversation by telephone. Mr. O’Rourke neither pledged to help Ms. Jones nor told her directly that he would be withholding his support, according to people briefed on the call.In late June, Ronald Smith, a liberal activist in Mr. Hurd’s district, emailed Mr. O’Rourke’s campaign demanding to know: “Has Beto endorsed Gina Ortiz Jones? If not, when will he endorse her?” Mr. Smith said he wanted “a team player for my next Democratic senator.”An O’Rourke campaign representative offered a noncommittal reply in an email reviewed by The New York Times: “We are evaluating some local and regional races at this time.”By the summer, aides to Mr. O’Rourke had made clear to Ms. Jones’s campaign that he would not support her candidacy, three Democrats familiar with the exchange said. Mr. O’Rourke valued his relationship with Mr. Hurd and was mentioning it frequently on the campaign trail, as he sought to win crossover support from right-of-center voters.Ms. Jones, who has said she is likely to run again in 2020, declined through an aide to be interviewed about Mr. O’Rourke.Mr. O’Rourke’s defenders note that several Democrats benefited from his stronger-than-expected showing against Mr. Cruz, helping the party flip congressional seats in the Houston and Dallas areas.But in no other swing district was Mr. O’Rourke’s allegiance in question. Mr. O’Rourke carried the 23rd District even as Mr. Hurd narrowly won re-election there. In the section of the district that spills into Bexar County, home to San Antonio, Mr. O’Rourke outperformed Mr. Cruz by about 3,900 votes, a review of precinct-level election results found. The same set of precincts voted for Mr. Hurd over Ms. Jones by nearly 4,700 votes. Mr. Hurd won the district by just over 900 votes.“We know exactly what the Beto bump was and it was amazing,” said Mr. Smith, the liberal activist. “But my assessment was, for Democrats, as well as we did this last election cycle, we would have had one more seat if Beto had been on board with Gina Ortiz Jones.”Kitty Bennett contributed research.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byLet us help you start your day.By Alisha Haridasani Gupta(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning.The U.S. pushes allies to block Huawei, Venezuela faces mounting international pressure and India struggles to keep troublemaking monkeys in line. Here’s the latest:Over the past year, the Trump administration has embarked on a global campaign to pressure allies to prevent Huawei and other Chinese firms from helping build out 5G networks.The U.S. has suggested to Poland that future deployments of American troops could hinge on whether the country works with Huawei. And in Germany, American officials warned that working with Huawei could pose a security risk to NATO.Why: The U.S. believes that whoever controls the high-speed 5G internet networks will have an economic, military and intelligence edge for much of this century. The Trump administration has therefore adopted a zero-sum calculus in which Beijing — and companies perceived to be working for the Chinese government — must be shut out.What’s next? The U.S. campaign may complicate the round of trade talks with China beginning in Washington later this week, particularly as Beijing seeks to free Huawei’s chief financial officer, Meng Wanzhou, who was arrested in Canada at the request of the U.S.President Trump temporarily reopened the government on Friday, but the clock is ticking. He warned that he was ready to renew the confrontation or bypass Congress altogether if Republicans and Democrats couldn’t agree on funding for a border wall by Feb. 15.On the same day the president bowed to pressure, the special counsel indicted one of his longtime advisers, Roger Stone, revealing the most direct link yet between the Trump campaign and the WikiLeaks effort to release hacked emails from the Democratic Party.Here’s a profile of Mr. Stone and an explanation of what his indictment means. And here’s a visual representation of how many times the Trump campaign had contact with Russian nationals and WikiLeaks.Analysis: The combination of the shutdown and the Stone indictment may have damaged the president’s leverage. According to some estimates, the American economy lost at least $6 billion during the 35-day stalemate. And Mr. Trump’s poll numbers were dragged down, stirring concerns among Republican leaders about his ability to navigate the next two years of a divided government.European countries — including the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain and Britain — urged President Nicolás Maduro to hold new elections within eight days.If Mr. Maduro doesn’t commit to fresh elections, the European governments will recognize the opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, as the interim president of Venezuela.Analysis: The ultimatum presents a new layer of uncertainty in a deepening political crisis. Mr. Guaidó, who proclaimed himself the legitimate leader of the country, urged protesters to keep the pressure on the government “if they dare to kidnap me.”Mr. Maduro has done an about-face and appeared to be striking a more conciliatory tone. He backed down from demanding that all American diplomats leave the country. And his government has refrained from detaining Mr. Guaidó as support for the opposition leader grows at home and abroad.The U.S. and the Taliban wrapped up six days of negotiations to end the 17-year conflict in Afghanistan. Both sides reported progress — a first in nine years of intermittent peace efforts.Details: Though much remains to be ironed out, the deal would kick off a phased withdrawal of American troops in exchange for a Taliban cease-fire. The Taliban would also have to pledge not to allow international terrorist groups to use Afghanistan as a planning hub. How the Taliban would share power with the Afghan government remains to be resolved.Caution: Most observers don’t believe Afghan forces have the ability to stand up against the Taliban without American support, leaving any truce in a precarious state once the U.S. leaves.Another angle: The toll of the war has been immense — at least 62,000 Afghan military and police lives, and possibly as many Taliban lives, and more than 24,000 Afghan civilians killed over the last decade alone. One photographer set out to capture the makeshift prosthetics some Afghans use.Coming this week: The British Parliament votes on amendments to Prime Minister Theresa May’s latest Brexit plan, and the U.S. Federal Reserve meets (but will probably hold off on raising interest rates).Philippines: Two bombs exploded at a cathedral on the southern island of Jolo, killing 20 people and wounding many others, officials said. The attack came days after voters had rejected a bid to include the Jolo in a Muslim autonomous area, sparking fears of separatist reprisals.Indonesia: At least 68 people have died and nearly 7,000 have taken refuge in emergency shelters on the island of Sulawesi after floods, landslides and a tornado battered the region last week.Facebook: Mark Zuckerberg plans to merge all of the social media platform’s messaging services — WhatsApp, Instagram and Messenger — at a time when the company has been scarred by scandal. The services will continue to operate as stand-alone apps but will be more unified, allowing users to communicate across the platforms.Brazil: A dam in southeastern town of Brumadinho collapsed, leaving 34 people dead and almost 300 missing in the deadliest mining accident in the country’s history.Gandhi: Around the world, the man who led India into independence is still revered as a peaceful revolutionary. But his halo has dimmed for the Hindu right and lower castes.Germany: A panel drawn from the power industry, environmental movement, miners and local interest groups laid out a plan to end the country’s use of coal power within two decades, the most significant national attempt yet to reduce carbon emissions.The Holocaust: On her way to visit Auschwitz, our reporter found “Heil Hitler” signs and other Nazi swag at a flea market in Poland, where laws regulating such sales are little enforced.Australian Open: In a stunning career revival, Novak Djokovic beat Rafael Nadal for his 15th Grand Slam title. And Naomi Osaka became the first Asian player to clinch a No. 1 ranking globally after defeating Petra Kvitova for her second Grand Slam title.Amazon: “Vine Voices” — trusted product reviewers the company has designated since 2007 — have become a powerful yet secretive force on the e-commerce platform.Taj Mahal: In an effort to stop mischievous monkeys from attacking tourists near the famous landmark, Indian security guards are turning to an unusual weapon of choice — slingshots.#ThankGodIt’sMonday? A new workplace culture has emerged in recent years that glorifies the hustle and encourages employees to put in long hours. Our technology reporter considers whether that’s sustainable.Tips for a more fulfilling life.Recipe of the day: For a quick dinner, make soba noodles into a salad with edamame, carrots and spinach.You can silence notifications on your phone without missing the really important ones.Intense exercise could reduce your interest in food, some studies suggest.Happy Data Privacy Day!Or, maybe not so happy. In the years since the celebration was born in Europe and then adopted in the U.S. and Canada, digital privacy has become a mainstream concern.This writer covers personal tech for a living. And I’ve lost count of how many times hackers have breached companies’ computer systems and stolen customer’s credit card numbers, and worse. (Thanks, Equifax, Marriott and Facebook.)Digital privacy is no joke. If you do one thing to protect your data today — or this week, or this year — set aside a few hours to beef up the strength of your passwords.Make sure every password you use for logging in to a site or an app is unique and complex. Password management apps like 1Password or LastPass make it easy, by letting you use one master password to access a vault of all your passwords.Trust me, you’ll feel a lot better.Brian X. Chen, the lead consumer technology writer at The Times, wrote today’s Back Story.Your Morning Briefing is published weekday mornings and updated online. Sign up here to get it by email in the Australian, Asian, European or American morning. You can also receive an Evening Briefing on U.S. weeknights.And our Australia bureau chief offers a weekly letter adding analysis and conversations with readers.Browse our full range of Times newsletters here.What would you like to see here? Contact us at asiabriefing@nytimes.com.Alisha Haridasani Gupta writes the Morning Briefing.  @alisha__g Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byMediatorBy Jim RutenbergUnder Article 6, Paragraph 1 of Saudi Arabia’s Anti-Cyber Crime Law, the following is punishable by up to five years in prison: “Production, preparation, transmission, or storage of material impinging on public order, religious values, public morals, and privacy, through the information network or computers.”Think “First Amendment.” Then invert it.Last week, we learned that the Kingdom had alerted Netflix that it had violated the statute with an episode of its comedy show “Patriot Act,” starring Hasan Minhaj, a comedian and American Muslim. How? Mr. Minhaj dared to question Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, both for the C.I.A.’s conclusion he ordered the murder of the Saudi dissident Jamal Khashoggi and for Saudi war atrocities in Yemen.Maybe the Saudi complaint wasn’t all that shocking. Like any authoritarian monarch worth his bone saw, Prince Mohammed doesn’t brook criticism, which is why he has overseen the Saudis’ increased jailing of journalists, critics and rivals.The shock came with Netflix’s supine compliance. After pulling the episode from its Saudi feed, the streaming service told The Financial Times it was simply responding to “a valid legal request.”Add another 10 paces to America’s retreat from its place at the forefront of free speech and political expression.It was but one episode in one country. And Saudis who were burning to see it could still find it on YouTube.But each small step for dictatorial crackdowns abetted by American leaders — be they in politics or business — is one giant leap for the forces that are now so successfully stanching free expression and dissent across the world.L’affaire Netflix raises a big question: As America’s new media overlords grow at a stunning rate, expanding into every nook and cranny of the globe where governments will let them in, are they compelled to defend universal values like free speech that their home country was founded on?Increasingly, it seems, profit, expansion and perhaps a wee bit of cowardice are trumping the very principles that made the United States entertainment and news industries what they are — and that made a Netflix possible in the first place.I’m not so naïve that I don’t understand that this is the cost of becoming a dominant media player now, when success is measured by how many more hundreds of millions of users a company can attract.“Stock price is measuring expected future earnings and those turn on global user numbers,” said Sam Blatteis, the former public policy lead for Google and YouTube in the Gulf and now chief executive for MENA Catalysts, a Middle East government affairs consulting firm.Growth lies in emerging markets, many of which may be run by less-than-savory characters ruling by less-than-savory means.“Companies have to walk this tightrope between their cosmopolitan values on one side and realizing that going abroad into many emerging markets is a contact sport,” Mr. Blatteis, speaking from Dubai, told me last week. “You have to roll up your sleeves and that can involve adapting and compromise.”That’s why Apple acquiesced to China’s demand that it remove various apps that bypassed the country’s censors as well as the news apps of The New York Times.It’s why Hollywood pulled back from making films critical of China (getting a bounty of Chinese movie financing in return).At the risk of hurting Mark Zuckerberg’s feelings, it’s why Facebook has agreed to demands from countries like Turkey, the United Arab Emirates and Pakistan to restrict access to posts deemed illegal because they criticized those countries’ leaders or founders.And it’s why, after Prince Mohammed said he would end a 35-year ban on movie theaters in the kingdom, entertainment moguls including Ari Emanuel, Robert A. Iger, and Mr. Murdoch feted him last spring at intimate dinners around Los Angeles, despite news of repression in the kingdom and civilian deaths in Yemen.Then came the killing of Mr. Khashoggi, who wrote columns for The Washington Post that were critical of the crown prince. According to United States intelligence, Prince Mohammed had ordered Mr. Khashoggi’s death, which his men carried out with slasher-flick aplomb, reportedly using a bone saw to dismember his body.That wasn’t enough for President Trump, who sowed doubt about the intelligence conclusion while praising Saudi Arabia for “keeping oil prices at reasonable levels.” The message on human rights and the First Amendment: Make me an offer.Mr. Trump didn’t invent realpolitik. But previously, even when American actions contradicted its vision of itself, presidential paeans to democratic norms carried at least symbolic weight.Netflix had an opportunity to send a different message.“Even more because Trump and the White House have been so much putting money over lives, frankly, I’d hoped that this was where American businesses could take a stand,” said The Post’s global opinions editor Karen Attiah, who edited Mr. Khashoggi’s columns. “Netflix really had a chance to stand up for values and for Hasan.”At the very least, she said, Netflix should have never called the Saudis’ legal request “valid,” even if it believed it had to comply to maintain its presence in the country.Netflix wouldn’t answer my question about what made the request “valid.” In a statement to me, its general counsel, David Hyman, said, “Our programs push the boundaries on important social and other issues in many places around the world.” But, he added, “to run a global service” the company has to abide by foreign laws “even when we disagree with them.” That is, a Netflix that compromises with rogue-ish regimes is better for free expression than no Netflix at all.One person outside the production, who was briefed on the deliberations in real time, told me Netflix discussed potential problems the episode would cause in Saudi Arabia before Mr. Minhaj filmed it, and raised the idea of scuttling it. This person would only speak on condition of anonymity because of the sensitive nature of the private discussions. An executive at the company, speaking on condition of anonymity for the same reason, said it only shared potential legal consequences with Mr. Minhaj’s team as due diligence, noting it ultimately went forward with the show and its distribution in Saudi Arabia.Until it didn’t.There have been other times when American businesses put American values above their bottom lines. After Steven Van Zandt, the E Street Band guitarist, led a musicians’ boycott of South Africa to protest apartheid, corporations including Coca-Cola, General Electric and GTE followed suit by withdrawing from the country.It’s true that the entertainment industry did not bathe itself in glory during Hitler’s early years.But throughout the war and afterward, they, along with many other major American corporations, joined the robust national effort to defeat the Nazis and promote American values throughout Europe, which helped the United States win the Cold War.It’s a little hard to imagine such a national effort coming together now.Maybe that’s partly because the major social media and entertainment platforms have such global scale that they’re almost their own borderless governments.“It seems to be a moment in the evolution of the corporation that it starts to become akin to a world actor in its own right,” Nicholas J. Cull, a professor at the University of Southern California’s Annenberg School for Communication and Journalism who has written extensively on the American information effort during the Cold War. When it comes to their home country, he said, “It’s, ‘We’re sympathetic, but we have our own set of interests.’”The media behemoths would be wise to remember that their future growth will rely on having the same liberties that fostered their creation.I’m reminded of a line from the Netflix-BBC One co-production of “Watership Down,” based on Richard Adams’s allegorical novel about a noble herd of rabbits’ pursuit of a peaceful homeland. After their leader Hazel helps another group of rabbits escape a totalitarian warren, he tells them, “You have fought so hard to earn your freedom, but now you must fight to keep it, because the battle for liberty is one which has no end.”Take heed, Netflix.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byPor Marina FrancoBuen martes, bienvenido al boletín diario de The New York Times en Español. Si aún no estás suscrito, puedes darte de alta en este enlace.¿Tienes sugerencias? ¿Quieres hacernos llegar tu opinión? Escríbenos a esta dirección.• ‘Una negación de la historia’: los guatemaltecos están en alerta por una posible amnistía a violadores de derechos humanos. Mañana el Congreso de Guatemala podría decidir que más de treinta soldados, oficiales del ejército e integrantes de patrullas de autodefensa detenidos por delitos de lesa humanidad queden libres y que se suspendan miles de casos judiciales por violaciones de derechos humanos durante la guerra civil. Hablamos con juristas para entender por qué los legisladores propusieron esta reforma a meses de una elección y con familiares de víctimas sobre qué significaría para ellos que sea aprobada la reforma a la Ley de Reconciliación Nacional.• Denuncias en Colombia por la objeción presidencial a una ley sobre los acuerdos de paz. Después de que el presidente Iván Duque anunciara su rechazo parcial a una legislación clave para que funcione el tribunal especial de paz JEP, diversas figuras colombianas mandaron ayer una carta a la ONU en la que dicen que Duque está intentando “lesionar gravemente la implementación del acuerdo” alcanzado en 2016 con las Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia que puso fin a un conflicto de más de cinco décadas. Entre los firmantes de la carta están el exvicepresidente Humberto de la Calle, el exjefe guerrillero y ahora líder político Rodrigo Londoño, así como académicos y activistas como Luz Marina Bernal.• Cristina Fernández de Kirchner es acusada otra vez (ahora de ocultar documentos). La expresidenta y senadora argentina, probable candidata presidencial para las elecciones de octubre, fue imputada ayer por encubrimiento y ocultamiento de documentos históricos que fueron encontrados en oficinas suyas allanadas el año pasado como parte de otro caso judicial en su contra. Fernández de Kirchner ya enfrenta otras siete causas ante el juez Claudio Bonadio por asociación ilícita y lavado de dinero, entre otros delitos que se le imputan.“La explicación de la calamidad cubana ha sido el ineficaz modelo económico de planificación centralizada, empresas estatales y colectivización agraria que sus dirigentes han implementado pese a su fracaso a nivel mundial”.El economista especializado en asuntos latinoamericanos Carmelo Mesa-Lago postula las principales razones del fracaso económico en la isla y propone que Cuba adopte un modelo similar al que existe en Vietnam y China, que tienen una economía de mercado socialista.¿Cómo es el día a día en la tarea de fotografiar al presidente estadounidense? Pocas personas conocen tan bien las pequeñas y grandes complejidades de este trabajo como Doug Mills, fotorreportero de The New York Times que ha captado a seis mandatarios de Estados Unidos. En entrevista, Mills describe los beneficios inesperados de fotografiar a Donald Trump. Por ejemplo: “No importa dónde veas a Trump o bajo qué luz esté”, dice, “sabes de inmediato que es él”.• La hora de la verdad para el futuro del brexit. La separación del Reino Unido y la Unión Europea está programada para el 29 de marzo, pero el gobierno de Theresa May sigue buscando negociar el plan que determinará cómo se relacionarán diplomática y comercialmente los británicos y el bloque continental. May viajó ayer de emergencia a Estrasburgo [en inglés] para pedir ligeros cambios en temas como la frontera irlandesa —Irlanda seguirá siendo parte del bloque e Irlanda del Norte, no— e intentar convencer así a los parlamentarios británicos de respaldar el proyecto en la votación de hoy.Es muy poco probable que eso suceda. Mañana habrá otra votación sobre si continuar con el “divorcio” sin un acuerdo que rija las relaciones futuras; de ganar el no, el jueves los parlamentarios votarán si solicitan posponer el brexit. Un posible aplazamiento difícilmente ayudará a resolver las crisis que ya han surgido entre amistades y familias [en inglés].• Lo que necesitas saber del Boeing 737 Max 8 después de la caída del avión de Ethiopia Airlines. Este tipo de aeronaves hacen más de 8500 viajes cada semana alrededor del mundo, pero la muerte de 157 personas el domingo, el segundo siniestro en menos de un año con este modelo de Boeing, ha provocado alertas en todo el planeta. Mientras se revisa la caja negra para deteminar por qué se cayó el avión de Ethiopia Airlines, puedes examinar qué aerolíneas con esas aeronaves en su flota han suspendido su uso y ver sitios como FlighStats para saber si algún vuelo que tengas programado usa ese Boeing.• Los verdaderos caminos de internet son oceánicos. Cientos de miles de kilómetros de cableado submarino unen a los continentes para satisfacer nuestras demandas de comunicación y entretenimiento en línea. De Hong Kong a Londres y, en un nuevo proyecto, de Chile a Estados Unidos: así se construyen y tienden los cables que hoy conectan nuestras vidas con todo el mundo.• Facebook ahora pretende ser el modelo de la privacidad. Mark Zuckerberg, director ejecutivo de la empresa pensada para compartir información en público, anunció la semana pasada que de ahora en adelante la red social promoverá la mensajería privada con mayor encriptación. El anuncio fue hecho después de escándalos por la filtración de datos a empresas como Cambridge Analytica y de la venta de información de Facebook a otras compañías.• Los salones del automóvil recurren a simuladores y realidad virtual. Las exhibiciones automovilísticas no quieren volverse irrelevantes, así que han incorporado dosis de tecnología como muestras de empresas emergentes dedicadas a la seguridad vehicular y nuevas experiencias para probar los vehículos, incluyendo aplicaciones interactivas.• Las tiendas minoristas buscan mejorar su servicio al cliente... con reconocimiento facial virtual. La nueva apuesta para competir con las ventas por internet es renovar la experiencia en tiendas físicas; en una reciente convención, compañías como Saks hablaron de programas de reconocimiento facial [en inglés] que les deje acceder inmediatamente al perfil e historial de los compradores, así como de métodos de geolocalización para enviar mensajes de texto con promociones a quienes están cerca de una sucursal.• ¿Ya lograste cortar el cordón umbilical financiero? En los años noventa la imagen de muchos treintañeros, sobre todo en Estados Unidos, era de personas financieramente estables con su propio departamento y encaminados a empezar una familia. Pero los milénials que hoy tienen treinta y tantos están lejos de tener independencia monetaria: un estudio reciente arroja que más de la mitad de ellos no pueden sobrellevar su vida diaria sin algo de ayuda financiera de sus padres. ¿A qué se debe esta nueva realidad financiera?La última tienda Blockbuster sigue más que viva: la sucursal en Oregon, Estados Unidos, sigue rentando películas y series en DVD y Blu-ray, pero incluso se ha vuelto un sitio de peregrinaje. La noticia reciente de cómo la tienda ha atraído nuevos suscriptores ya parece haber motivado a uno de nuestros lectores a preparar un viaje: “Es tiempo de desempolvar mi credencial de socio”, nos escribió en Twitter, y nos la presumió:A otros lectores también les ganó la nostalgia y algunos argumentaron que Netflix y las plataformas de hoy no son lo mismo. “Blockbuster es casi arqueológico: en el futuro cercano será una labor de investigación histórica el encontrar una película fuera del streaming”, comentó Jorge Paredes por Facebook. “Mi esperanza es que lo retro siempre vuelve”, nos escribió Janeth Alcalá. Es cierto: ya han renacido las industrias de tecnologías de antaño como los discos en vinilo, ¿sucederá lo mismo con los sitios físicos para rentar películas?Gracias por leernos. Mañana no te pierdas las mejores noticias científicas y una selección de artículos especiales del Times.También puedes compartir este boletín con tus amigos, familiares, seres queridos y no tan queridos. Se pueden registrar en este enlace.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.It went viral. Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, told Andrew on CNBC that he didn’t quite understand why unpaid workers, some of them now turning to Uber and Lyft for income after missing their second paycheck, were visiting food banks. They should just borrow some money, he said:There really is not a good excuse why there should be a liquidity crisis. Now, true, the people might have to pay a little bit of interest. But the idea that it’s paycheck or zero is not a really valid idea.The comments reflect a “ ‘let them eat cake’ kind of attitude,” said Speaker Nancy Pelosi, who has emerged as a powerful opponent to President Trump.Federal workers, many of them wary of taking on more debt, might also struggle to access credit. The credit union affiliated with Mr. Ross’s department advertises a shutdown loan with a rate higher than some other commercially available loans.As the shutdown drags on, lawmakers are scrambling to find a compromise after two proposals to reopen the government fell flat in the Republican-controlled Senate. Mr. Trump’s plan, which included funding for a border wall, garnered less support than the Democrats’ recommendation, which omitted the wall.The strain intensifies: • Low- and middle-income home buyers in rural areas are left in the lurch without an affordable mortgage option offered by the Agriculture Department.• Tyson Foods donated 685,000 meals to federal workers.• The shutdown threatens to taint the appeal of public service, which “will make it harder to recruit and hold onto the experienced and talented,” Campbell Robertson writes.• Patent handling may have to cease in mid-February.• James Gorman, the chief executive of Morgan Stanley, said a prolonged shutdown would “have an extremely damaging effect.” Economists from J.P. Morgan said that, already, the stalemate had taken a toll on the U.S. economy.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin in Davos, Switzerland; Stephen Grocer in New York; and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________The mood at the World Economic Forum in the Swiss resort is “subdued, cautious and apprehensive,” a reflection of the broader outlook, Fareed Zakaria writes in the Washington Post:There is no great global political crisis, yet people speak in worried tones about the state of democracy, open societies and the international order.The reason: Mr. Zakaria points to a noticeable absence of leadership from defenders of democracy. President Trump scrapped plans to attend to focus on domestic problems, as did Prime Minister Theresa May of Britain and President Emmanuel Macron of France.The worry: The leaders of smaller countries described the world as lacking a collective purpose, he writes. Many yearn for a greater U.S. presence on the global stage, but with nobody shoring up the international system, will it weaken and eventually crumble?The warnings: Michael Sabia, who runs the $270 billion Canadian pension fund Caisse de Dépôt et Placement du Québec, complained that capitalists had forgotten their purpose as backers of corporate investment. “Too many equity investors are tourists; they’re not interested in building a business,” he said. And in a provocative speech, the billionaire philanthropist George Soros criticized President Xi Jinping, saying that China’s technological advancements made Mr. Xi a “dangerous opponent of open societies.”Complacency toward the trade tensions between the U.S. and China are misplaced, according to the Economist, because the rift is compounding a gradual shift in the world economy. Globalization, so the argument goes, has given way to a new era of sluggishness, or “slowbalization.”The back story: In the golden age of globalization, from about 1990 to 2010, commerce soared as the cost of transporting goods fell, tariffs were cut and the financial system became liberalized.The shift: Trade is suffering, and companies are changing their long-term investment plans. “Slowbalization” is expected to lead to stronger ties to regional blocs as supply chains seek sources closer to home.Why it matters: Emerging countries will struggle to trade their way to riches. Climate change, migration and tax-dodging will be even harder to solve without global cooperation.The effect is being felt around the world:• Germany’s industrial slump worsened at the start of 2019, casting a cloud over the eurozone economy.• Norway’s central bank said it was prepared to raise interest rates as soon as March, but warned of “considerable uncertainty” as it moves to wind down its stimulus plan.• Starbucks put its recent sales slump behind it, beating analyst estimates in crucial regions, but the company’s growth in China is at a crawl.The utility was cleared of responsibility in the 2017 blaze that chewed through a wide swath of Northern California, leading some to question whether the company should move ahead with its plans to file for bankruptcy by the end of the month.The California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection said that private electrical equipment in a home caused the Tubbs Fire in Sonoma County, which killed 22 people and destroyed more than 5,600 buildings. PG&E’s stock, which has plunged dramatically in recent months, surged 75 percent after the news on Thursday.But the company is still facing billions of dollars of potential liabilities. State officials blame PG&E equipment for at least 17 of 21 major wildfires in 2017.Bankruptcy, however, may not be the best course of action, according to many investors and analysts who say that PG&E has plenty of assets it could leverage against claims.From high above the Earth, a brigade of satellites can track the number of cars parked outside Sears stores, identify illegal logging operations, sense activity from cellular towers and snap infrared images of factories in Guangdong, China.Nowadays, it’s not only superpower governments that can gain access to the trove of information. Start-ups working with human rights groups and businesses looking for a competitive edge are moving rapidly into high-altitude surveillance, Cade Metz writes.Satellites have become cheaper to build, launch and operate, with 2,220 Earth observation units expected to head into orbit over the next decade, compared with about 730 satellites launched in the past decade.Though some say that spying from the sky is a “narrow niche,” Mark Johnson, the chief executive of the start-up Descartes Labs, said the development could have major ramifications.“Businesses will not be able to hide from competitors or regulators or watchdogs,” he said. “They need to realize that their traditional competitive advantage — information — will be available to everyone.”David Giordano will become BlackRock’s global head of renewable power, replacing Jim Barry, who will remain global head of real assets. (Bloomberg)Deals• The N.F.L. great Joe Montana, who founded a venture fund in 2015, participated in a $75 million fund-raising round for the marijuana brand Caliva. Carol Bartz, the former chief executive of Yahoo, also invested. (Bloomberg)Tech • Amazon is marketing facial recognition technology that a study reveals had difficulty identifying the gender of female faces and darker-skinned faces. (NYT)• Shares of Tencent jumped more than 3 percent after Chinese regulators approved two of the company’s mobile games. (Reuters)• A philanthropic investment group run by Mark Zuckerberg and Priscilla Chan does not funnel data back to Facebook, Ms. Chan said. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy • Roger Stone, a longtime adviser to President Trump, was indicted in the special counsel investigation into election interference and charged with seven counts, including obstruction and witness tampering. (NYT)• More than 90 percent of the Trump administration’s efforts to pare back federal regulations on business have been blocked in court or withdrawn after a lawsuit, according to a running tally. (CNBC)• Senator Elizabeth Warren proposed a tax that would require the top 75,000 households to pay an annual 2 percent tax on net worth above $50 million, rising to 3 percent on every dollar above $1 billion. (Bloomberg)• Two House committees sent an inquiry to Deutsche Bank about the lender’s ties to President Trump. A financial disclosure form showed at least $130 million in liabilities to a unit of the German bank for properties including the Trump International Hotel in Washington. (Reuters)• According to a new study, members of Generation Z are more open to social change than older generations. These findings could substantially reshape the political landscape in the U.S. (NYT)• The White House is considering several women as the next World Bank president, including the former PepsiCo chief executive Indra Nooyi and possibly Dina Powell, a Goldman Sachs executive who helped advise the Trump administration on national security matters. (WSJ)• After a Chinese academic study named 66 companies, including Amazon and Apple, as having “misidentified” Taiwan as not being part of China, Taiwan’s foreign minister asked for support from “like-minded democracies.” (FT)Best of the rest • Kenneth Griffin’s purchase of a $238 million penthouse in New York heightened the debate about income inequality. (NYT)• Thomas Enders, the chief executive at Airbus, called the lack of clarity for businesses in Brexit talks a “disgrace.” (WSJ)• Hoping to address mounting public concerns over plastic waste, Procter & Gamble, Nestlé, PepsiCo and other companies will try selling their products in reusable containers. (WSJ)• Last year, as new laws focused on fraud targeting older customers, banks reported more than 24,000 suspected cases, more than double the number five years earlier. (WSJ)• Munchery, a meal delivery company backed by venture capital, fired 250 people and shut down. (Bloomberg)• Want a vacation home in the Hamptons? There are 82 percent more homes for sale in the beachfront towns than a year ago. (Bloomberg)• Student demand for computer science courses is outstripping the supply of professors, creating an undergraduate divide of computing haves and have-nots. (NYT)• Hedge fund start-ups are having a harder time amid rising costs and shrinking returns. The average size for new funds has sunk 72 percent, to $28 million, since 2000. (Bloomberg)• Ford says it could face costs of up to $1 billion if Britain leaves the European Union without a deal. (Reuters)• The San Joaquin County pension fund has decided to pull its entire $81 million from Bridgewater’s Pure Alpha II fund because of disappointing returns and high fees. (Bloomberg)• Prices for Super Bowl commercials are flattening out after a decade of steady increases. Viewership peaked in 2015 and fell to its lowest level in nine years last year. (Bloomberg)• In a blow to Google’s effort to compete with Amazon in e-commerce, Walmart has left Google’s Shopping Actions service and its Google Express delivery service. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Nick Corasaniti and Shane GoldmacherNEWARK — Senator Cory Booker of New Jersey, the former mayor of Newark who has projected an upbeat political presence at a deeply polarized time, entered the 2020 race for president on Friday, embarking on a campaign to become the nation’s second black president in a Democratic primary field that is the most diverse in American history.Mr. Booker announced his candidacy on the first day of Black History Month to the sound of snare drums and with a clarion call for unity. In an email to supporters, he drew on the spirit of the civil rights movement as he laid out his vision for a country that will “channel our common pain back into our common purpose.”“The history of our nation is defined by collective action; by interwoven destinies of slaves and abolitionists; of those born here and those who chose America as home; of those who took up arms to defend our country, and those who linked arms to challenge and change it,” Mr. Booker said in an accompanying video.The Democratic field now features two black contenders — Mr. Booker and Senator Kamala Harris of California — and four women: Ms. Harris, Senators Elizabeth Warren and Kirsten Gillibrand, and Representative Tulsi Gabbard. There is also a Hispanic candidate, Julián Castro, the former Housing and Urban Development secretary under President Barack Obama, and a gay candidate, Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind.The field reflects a party in which women and candidates of color have injected a surge of new energy, and given urgency to the Democrats’ imperative of ousting President Trump. And it follows midterm elections in which women and minority candidates for Congress won in record numbers and have assumed some key positions in party ranks.“It shows the growth of the country and that many of us who have struggled for civil and human rights feel that we are in a new moment that we wanted,’’ the Rev. Al Sharpton said in an interview. He added: “It’s like the new America against the old America and a lot of Americans who are older and younger want to make sure they participate in the new America.”With Ms. Harris announcing her candidacy last month, Mr. Booker’s entry amounts to a presidential first: offering black voters, who have been crucial in determining the last two Democratic nominees, a choice between two black candidates as well as other contenders.In an interview on SiriusXM’s Joe Madison show, Mr. Booker touted “the coalitions that we need to build in this country,’’ adding “we’ve got to begin to see each other with a far more courageous empathy to understand that we have one destiny in America.”[Check out the Democratic field with our candidate tracker.]Mr. Booker’s announcement had long been anticipated. He was among the most conspicuous campaigners for other Democrats during the 2018 midterm election, making 39 trips to 24 states as he honed a central message — that this was a “moral moment in America” — that is likely to frame his future critiques of the Trump administration.Through his soaring oratory, laced with inspirational quotes, Mr. Booker has projected a relentless optimism that provides perhaps the starkest contrast to the divisive politics ushered in by Mr. Trump. His message of unity also comes amid a fractured Democratic coalition, where far-left progressives like Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez view traditional Democrats with caution.It remains to be seen whether Mr. Booker’s aspirational tones will fall flat with a Democratic electorate energized by seething anger toward Mr. Trump. Mr. Booker has at times been a harsh critic of the president, denouncing Mr. Trump’s degradation of African and Haitian countries as “the most vile and vulgar language.” He may face pressure to adopt a harsher, more confrontational message in his campaign.Mr. Trump, in an interview with CBS’s “Face the Nation” that will air this weekend, cast doubt on Mr. Booker’s candidacy.“He’s got no chance,” the president said. When asked why, Mr. Trump replied: “Because I know him. I don’t think he has a chance.”Mr. Booker also has a lengthy record of moderate, pro-business stances that could be problematic for the party’s ascendant progressive wing.For example, he defended the investment firm Bain Capital against attacks from the Obama campaign during the 2012 presidential election, and he had a chummy relationship with Chris Christie, the Republican former governor of New Jersey, for most of his tenure.His continued embrace of charter schools, long a favorite of wealthy donors but currently out of favor among the Democratic grass roots, could create still more problems.In a press event Friday outside his home on a crowded street in Newark, Mr. Booker pushed back on criticism that he favored special interests.Who’s in, who’s out and who’s still thinking.“My record as a mayor, my record as a senator is fighting those interests that are trying to screw people,” Mr. Booker said. “And when it comes to defending folk, I will be ferocious.”In announcing his bid for president, Mr. Booker is seeking to fulfill the promise that many have seen in his future for two decades, ever since he moved from Yale Law School to the blighted Brick Towers of Newark, the symbolic launching pad for his career as an inner-city politician.His first electoral victory was for the City Council in Newark, ousting an incumbent Democrat. He failed in his first bid for mayor, in 2002, against another entrenched Democrat, Sharpe James. But the loss made Mr. Booker famous as he raised millions of dollars in a race that drew national attention.A documentary about his failed run, “Street Fight,” was nominated for an Oscar. Mr. Booker won the mayoralty four years later when Mr. James, who would eventually land in federal prison on charges of fraud, opted against a rematch.As mayor, Mr. Booker crafted celebrity status through his early adoption of Twitter. He drew attention and money to the struggling city, including a $100 million check from Mark Zuckerberg, the founder of Facebook, to be injected into Newark’s schools. The gift was announced with much fanfare on “The Oprah Winfrey Show,” but brought mixed results to the troubled school system.After running on a platform of making Newark a safer place to live, crime fell early in his tenure, but began to rise after budget cuts led Mr. Booker to lay off about 10 percent of the police force. At the same time, Mr. Booker’s police director embraced the controversial “stop-and-frisk” policy, and the American Civil Liberties Union accused the department of brutality, baseless searches, intimidation and false arrests. The Department of Justice launched an investigation into the department, though it was billed as “cooperative” and Mr. Booker said he “welcomed” the inquiry.Mr. Booker’s connections to financial titans, on Wall Street and in Silicon Valley, have also lifted him throughout his career, generating money for campaigns and for the city he ran. Those connections could power a presidential bid: One California donor, Steve Phillips, created a super PAC with a goal to raise $10 million in the coming months to support Mr. Booker’s bid — even before he announced his candidacy.But in a Democratic Party where a backlash to the sway of billionaires and financiers is strong, Mr. Booker’s ties to both Wall Street and Silicon Valley risk harming his campaign as much as helping it.His campaign, which will be called “Cory 2020,” said it would not accept contributions from corporate PACs and federal lobbyists, and also said it would oppose any supportive super PAC, even though Mr. Phillips’s already exists.For all the attention drawn to Newark by Mr. Booker’s national celebrity, recovery in the city has been mixed. Though crime is currently on a downward trend under Mayor Ras Baraka and development is booming, murders and robberies were on the rise when Mr. Booker left office in 2013.In the Senate, Mr. Booker has been one of the most aggressive critics of the Trump administration, breaking with Senate precedent and testifying against the nomination of a fellow senator, Jeff Sessions, for attorney general. He also vigorously criticized a top Trump official, Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen, for concealing a racist comment made by Mr. Trump.Using his perch on the Judiciary Committee, he has been a forceful opposing voice to many of Mr. Trump’s key nominations, releasing confidential emails during the confirmation hearing of Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh and, more recently, questioning the attorney general nominee William P. Barr’s record and past statements on race and criminal justice.Mr. Booker has a relatively thin record of signature legislative accomplishments in the Senate. He did notch a major victory in co-sponsoring and pushing for a bipartisan criminal justice bill signed by Mr. Trump at the end of 2018, capping a long effort of advocating criminal justice reform in the Senate.Mr. Booker was one of the first politicians to fully embrace the direct reach of social media, tweeting out direct responses to Newark residents complaining of potholes and broken heaters. Stories of him shoveling out residents of Newark in snowstorms, rescuing a shivering dog or darting into a burning building to save his neighbor went viral. He was invited to the annual South by Southwest festival in Austin in 2012 to pontificate about Twitter, and said he joined the social media network thanks to a tip from the actor Ashton Kutcher.Though he has been courting political operatives in Iowa and New Hampshire for months, Mr. Booker will likely focus heavily on South Carolina and other southeastern states with large black voting populations.His first campaign events as a candidate will be a two-day swing through Iowa on Feb. 8, followed by two days in South Carolina. He plans to visit New Hampshire over Presidents’ Day weekend.Mr. Booker, who visited a church in Newark on Thursday night to pray before his announcement, said that he hadn’t quite settled on a campaign theme song, though Kirk Franklin’s “Stand” had been in heavy rotation.“This last week, leading up to this day,” Mr. Booker said on the “Tom Joyner Morning Show,” “all I’ve been listening to is gospel.”Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Here’s what to watch for. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)President Trump is optimistic about striking a trade deal with China — but Chinese officials are hesitant, according to Keith Bradsher and Ana Swanson of the NYT:“Beijing officials are wary” that what currently looks like a positive trade deal for them, which doesn’t require big changes to the economy, could turn bad, Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson explain. They worry about “Mr. Trump’s propensity for last-minute changes,” according to unidentified sources.Those fears could derail a planned summit meeting between President Trump and President Xi Jinping of China, where Mr. Trump hopes to sign a deal. “Persuading Mr. Xi to attend such a summit meeting is no easy task, given his imperative of appearing strong before a domestic audience,” Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson note.“The biggest barrier to a deal continues to be the enforcement of terms,” Mr. Bradsher and Ms. Swanson add. “The United States has insisted that it retain the right to raise tariffs if China violates the agreement, without retaliation by Beijing. But some Chinese officials have criticized the arrangement as a potential infringement of China’s sovereign rights.”More: China exports and imports both fell in February, as an economic slowdown and trade fights weighed on the nation.The dust has settled on Mark Zuckerberg’s surprise announcement that the social network would refocus its business on privacy. Now, people are starting to dissect what, exactly, the news means for its business model.“Facebook is entering a transition phase where it will continue to sell targeted ads on its public social networks, while inventing a new business model,” Thomas Husson, a senior analyst at the research company Forrester, told the FT. In other words, think of it as less of a pivot and as more of a diversification.So it will “still gather data from its existing sources,” Christopher Mims of the WSJ writes, “but also increasingly from messaging apps. These would double as interfaces with businesses and, eventually, usurp the functions of our credit cards and digital wallets.” Expect to see Facebook make announcements about payments, commerce and its own crypto token in the not-too-distant future.Diversification is a play for long-term survival, especially if regulators clamp down on the mass collection of data and targeted ads that have been the company’s bread and butter. The faster Facebook can spin up alternative revenue streams — and acting as a global payments network could be a lucrative one — the better its chances of continuing to grow.Bank of America released a report yesterday, on the eve of International Women’s Day, that shows the state of the global disparity in wealth between men and women. There’s reason for both hope and dismay, according to Ortenca Aliaj of the FT.The good:• The report says that improving women’s equality could raise global growth over the next six years by $28 trillion — or, as Ms. Aliaj writes, “roughly the same as the U.S. and China’s combined annual economic output.”• Women are expected to control $72 trillion of global financial assets by 2020, double what they held in 2010.The bad:• “The economic gender gap is closing at a ‘snail’s pace’ and it could take another 202 years to reach equality at the current rate.”• “Women in western Europe might start earning the same as men for the same roles in 60 years, while women in North America might have to wait another 165 years, the report calculated.”• “Data compiled from more than 10,000 respondents showed that men were more optimistic about higher pay rises over the next year while women expected to perform at least two and a half times more unpaid work than men.”More: The private equity and venture capital industries have $3 trillion in assets under management — but female entrepreneurs receive just a fraction of it, according to a new report.As Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant, takes the U.S. government to court over a ban limiting the use of its products in federal agencies, the company has won the support of its government.• “We support relevant companies and individuals to take up legal weapons to safeguard their rights and interests, and not be silent lambs,” Wang Yi, Beijing’s top diplomat, said at a news conference yesterday.• “What we’re standing up for is not just the interests of a company, but also a country or nation’s legitimate right to innovate and by extension the basic right of all countries who wish to climb up the technology ladder,” he added.But Mr. Wang’s comments don’t address U.S. claims that Huawei equipment could be used by China to spy on American communications. As CNBC notes, Chinese law suggests that domestic companies are legally obligated to help the government with intelligence work — and may be forbidden from talking about it.With less than a week to go before Parliament makes a final vote on Prime Minister Theresa May’s Brexit deal, she is expected to try to shift the focus from Britain to the E.U.“Just as MPs will face a big choice next week, the E.U. has to make a choice too,” Mrs. May is expected to say in a speech today, according to the BBC. “It is in the European interest for the U.K. to leave with a deal.”“The decisions that the European Union makes over the next few days will have a big impact on the outcome of the vote,” she will add, referring to her hope that European officials will make binding legal changes to the Irish border details of her deal. Those look necessary if Mrs. May is to win over lawmakers.Such a public plea for compromise shows how tough the negotiations have been. “Talks are expected to continue into the weekend,” Bloomberg notes. “If they fail, Parliament will likely vote against May’s deal for the second time, plunging the country into political chaos.”Just a few months ago, the European Central Bank put the brakes on a vast economic stimulus program. Yesterday, it unexpectedly reversed course, Jack Ewing of the NYT writes:• The E.C.B. voted unanimously “to bring back a stimulus measure intended to encourage lending. The move will help banks in countries with weaker economies like Italy that may have trouble raising money on capital markets at reasonable rates.”• “The bank also pushed back the date of its earliest possible increase in benchmark interest rates by at least four months.”• “The quick turnabout, from confidence to concern, reflects the broader weakness in the global economy. A slowdown in China, exacerbated by rising trade tensions with the United States, has reverberated around the world, dragging down growth in Europe and elsewhere.”• “Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, implicitly blamed White House policies for the economic damage behind the decision. ‘Lower confidence produced by the trade discussions’ was a key cause of economic slowdowns in Europe, China and emerging markets, Mr. Draghi said.”• “He added, though, that he did not expect a recession.”You might think that Martin Shkreli, the “pharma bro” imprisoned for fraud, would have curtailed his business efforts. You’d be wrong, as Rob Copeland and Bradley Hope of the WSJ point out.• “Wielding little more than a contraband smartphone, the disgraced pharmaceutical executive remains the shadow power at Phoenixus AG,” the company that, under a different name, drew outrage for jacking up the prices of rare drugs.• He conducts drug research from the prison’s computer lab and, until recently, tweeted insults at the likes of Jack Dorsey of Twitter.• His friends at a prison in Fort Dix, N.J., include inmates like “Krispy” and “D-Block.” (Their reported nickname for Mr. Shkreli is unprintable here.)• “A few weeks ago he rang up his handpicked chief executive during a safari vacation — to fire him, according to a person familiar with the exchange.” That was later changed to a suspension.• “His back-of-the-commissary-envelope calculation indicates that Phoenixus could be worth $3.7 billion by the time he is due to be freed in 2023, according to a person familiar with his thinking.” His business plan involves buying rare drugs and spending on research and development.• But minority shareholders in the company are tired of Mr. Shkreli’s behavior. “This investment is an absolute disaster,” Sabine Gritti, one of those investors, told the WSJ.Uber, Lyft, Airbnb, Slack and a host of other Silicon Valley companies are poised to go public this year, making employees and investors who own shares very rich. Nellie Bowles of the NYT explores how they plan to spend their wealth:They will push up real estate prices. The Bay Area, known for its unaffordable housing, may get even pricier. “People are like, ‘I’m not going to sell till next year, because there are going to be bajillionaries everywhere,’” Herman Chan, a real estate agent with Sotheby’s, told Ms. Bowles.There will be parties. Companies that go public want to celebrate, and hospitality companies are happy to oblige. One planner told Ms. Bowles that start-up I.P.O. party budgets can exceed $10 million, adding, “They’re wanting to bring in A-list celebrities to perform at the dinner tables for the executives.”Trophy purchases will be made. But wealth advisers are trying to persuade new clients to show a little restraint. “I don’t think a lot of them think there ever could be a downturn,” Ryan S. Cole of Citrine Capital told the NYT, adding, “They shouldn’t be buying boats.”Jan Stahlberg, a co-founder of the Swedish private equity firm EQT, is leaving to start an impact-investing fund.Deals• Norway gave its sovereign wealth fund permission to sell off its holdings in pure-play oil companies. (Bloomberg)• Airbnb agreed to buy HotelTonight, a site for last-minute hotel bookings. (NYT)• A group led by Amazon and the New York Yankees is reportedly close to buying the YES Network, the Yankee’s regional sports channel, from 21st Century Fox for about $3.5 billion. (NY Post)• SoftBank announced a new $5 billion fund to invest in Latin American start-ups. (WSJ)• The billionaire family that controls the maker of OxyContin has been dropped by Hildene Capital Management, a hedge fund that had managed some of their money. (WSJ)Politics and policy• House Democrats are looking into claims that President Trump wanted the White House to block AT&T’s bid for Time Warner. (CNBC)• The Labor Department proposed expanding overtime eligibility to cover most salaried workers earning less than $35,000 a year. (NYT)• Michael Cohen sued the Trump Organization over what he says are $1.9 million in unpaid legal fees. (NYT)• Paul Manafort was sentenced to 47 months in prison in one of two cases against him, well below federal guidelines. (NYT)Tech• Wall Street is betting on business software because of the sector’s fast growth. (FT)• Elon Musk’s federal security clearance is at risk over his pot use. (Bloomberg)• Facebook announced a plan to curb vaccine misinformation. (NYT)• Tim Cook changed his Twitter handle to “Tim Apple”— after President Trump misidentified him during a meeting this week. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Carlos Ghosn’s lawyer explained why his client left jail in disguise — and admitted that it didn’t work very well. (WSJ)• Governments and investors are taking a new interest in Africa. Will it play out better for Africans this time? (Economist)• Modern Monetary Theory is gaining favor among American politicians. But should we try it out in a smaller country first? (Upshot)• Philadelphia has become the first U.S. city to ban cashless stores. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you next week.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. (Want this by email? Sign up here.)Guns Down America, a gun-control advocacy group, has graded 15 banks based on their support for the gun industry, Tiffany Hsu of the NYT reports. Most received dismal appraisals.• “Six of the banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo, received failing grades. Citigroup earned the highest one, a B.”• The group used a 100-point scale that weighed factors like “a bank’s loans to and investments in gun makers” and “discounts and deals it offers to N.R.A. members.”• Citi got an 84. JPMorgan got a 48. BB&T, the lowest-ranking bank on the list, got a 20, in part for loans and financing that it arranged for gun makers like Smith & Wesson.• “We’re not interested in shaming banks or running a campaign focused on how evil they are,” Igor Volsky, the group’s executive director, told Ms. Hsu. “Our end goal is to change the way banks make decisions when doing business with the gun industry.”• Ms. Hsu writes that “several banks contacted for comment said that they had not been consulted and that the group had relied on arbitrary metrics.”Carlos Ghosn was arrested for a fourth time today, as prosecutors hit him with new charges of using company funds for personal ends. The former Nissan chairman claims that it’s part of an effort to silence him.This time, he was accused of using a Nissan subsidiary in Oman to send millions of dollars of payments to one of the carmaker’s foreign business partners, which then passed it on to a company Mr. Ghosn controlled.Mr. Ghosn did this three times between 2015 and 2018, resulting in $5 million in losses to Nissan, according to prosecutors.He may be held in solitary confinement for at least 20 days, the FT reports, citing unnamed people close to his family. It adds that it is highly unusual in the Japanese legal system for someone released on bail to be rearrested.Mr. Ghosn blamed “some individuals at Nissan” for his “outrageous and arbitrary arrest,” saying they were attempting “to silence me by misleading the prosecutors.” He had tweeted yesterday that he planned to hold a news conference next Thursday to tell “the truth about what’s going on.”That tweet and arrest raise an interesting question: Did he violate the terms of his bail, which restrict his internet access?Cybersecurity researchers have found data about hundreds of millions of Facebook users stored publicly by a third party on Amazon’s cloud servers, according to Bloomberg.• “In one instance, Mexico City-based digital platform Cultura Colectiva openly stored 540 million records on Facebook users, including identification numbers, comments, reactions and account names. The records were accessible and downloadable for anyone who could find them online.”• “In the Cultura Colectiva dataset, which totaled 146 gigabytes, it was difficult for researchers to know how many unique Facebook users were affected.”• The researchers also “ had trouble working to get the database closed.”• “A Facebook spokesperson said that the company’s policies prohibit storing Facebook information in a public database. Once it was alerted to the issue, Facebook worked with Amazon to take down the databases.”It has been over a year since the Cambridge Analytica scandal showed how widely Facebook had shared user data with third-party app developers. The social network began to audit that data-sharing last year, but the research report shows the struggle the company still faces.More: Facebook is paying the British newspaper The Telegraph to publish sponsored articles that play down concerns about its practices. New research suggests that its algorithms target ads by race and gender even when advertisers request a broad audience. And have Mark Zuckerberg’s tech regulation proposals been treated unfairly?President Trump is expected to meet China’s trade envoy, Liu He, in Washington later today. That could be a sign of progress on some of the sticking points surrounding a potential deal, according to Bob Davis of the WSJ.The U.S. and China have been at odds over tariffs imposed on $250 billion of Chinese goods. Washington sees them as a way to ensure that China sticks to the deal; Beijing wants them removed as soon as it’s signed. China has few other hard demands, and U.S. businesses have urged the Trump administration to remove the tariffs.There could be workarounds. The U.S. trade representative, Robert Lighthizer, has “been using the tariff issue to push for another U.S. priority — that China agree to a no-retaliation clause in a trade deal,” Mr. Davis reports. The plan, which could let the U.S. unilaterally impose levies on Chinese goods if China does not comply, could “help him persuade Mr. Trump to approve the agreement and lift a substantial amount of tariffs.”“Mr. Trump is looking to announce on Thursday the date of a summit with Mr. Xi,” an unnamed Trump administration official told Mr. Davis. “That’s a big signal the two sides are on the cusp of a deal, trade experts say, and a resolution of the tariff issue.”But “the situation is fluid, and plans could change,” the official added.Senator Ron Wyden, the top Democrat on the Senate’s tax-writing committee, has an idea that could radically change how America taxes the 1 percent, according to the WSJ.Mr. Wyden proposed taxing gains in asset values annually, at the same rate as other income. Gains are currently taxed only when investors sell an asset, and at a top rate of 23.8 percent, rather than the 37 percent for ordinary income.The senator said his plan would “eliminate serious loopholes that allow some to pay a lower rate than wage earners, to delay their taxes indefinitely, and in some cases, to avoid paying tax at all.”Challenges to the plan include how to value gains in complex assets, how to handle declines in value, and how to apply it to illiquid holdings like real estate.The proposal “is a breathtakingly terrible idea,” Sen. Pat Toomey, Republican of Pennsylvania, told the WSJ.President Trump’s aversion to regulation and his go-it-alone nationalism are wavering in the face of technology questions, Steve Lohr of the NYT reports.• “In September, the Trump administration abandoned its hands-off approach and began working closely with the 36-nation Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development to create international guidelines for the design and use of artificial intelligence.”• “The administration has also started to discuss a new law to protect privacy in the digital age, seeking consensus domestically and common ground internationally. It has fielded more than 200 public-comment filings from advocacy groups, corporations and individuals.”The administration has “moved from indifference to engagement,” Julie Brill, a former commissioner at the Federal Trade Commission who now helps oversee regulatory affairs for Microsoft, told Mr. Lohr.“The shift is a pragmatic recognition that regulations that will affect the nation’s tech industry and its citizens are coming, and that if federal officials want a say in them, they must participate,” Mr. Lohr writes.The race to give citizens superfast wireless data networks reached a conclusion yesterday. But there’s no clear consensus on which city is the world’s first to enjoy 5G, the WSJ reports.• “Verizon launched 5G wireless service in parts of Chicago and Minneapolis on Wednesday, a week ahead of its planned start date, while carriers in South Korea deployed their service in the Seoul metropolitan area the same day.”• “It is unclear which country struck first. South Korea’s large carriers, which had eyed a Friday start, hustled to switch on 5G services at 11 p.m. local time. Both SK Telecom Co. and KT Corp., the two largest operators, claimed to have the world’s first 5G smartphone subscribers. Verizon said its customers in those two cities were the first.”The development of 5G has become politically charged. America and China, in particular, see it as a means of asserting technological prowess. And the battle has entangled the Chinese telecom company Huawei, with America and others declaring its 5G hardware a risk to national security.Expect to hear more about the race.Condé Nast has hired Roger Lynch, the former chief executive of Pandora, as its new C.E.O.PG&E confirmed that it has appointed 10 new directors, including Nora Mead Brownell, a former commissioner of the Federal Energy Regulation Commission, and Jeffrey Bleich, a partner at the law firm Dentons.Zeina Bain, one of the Carlyle Group’s most senior female deal makers, has left for a competitor, ICG.Apple promoted its M.&A. chief, Adrian Perica, by having him report directly to Tim Cook instead of the company’s C.F.O.Deals• The radio giant iHeartMedia filed to go public yesterday, though it hasn’t decided between an I.P.O. and a Spotify-like direct share listing. (NYT)• Nearly 20 percent of Lyft’s shares have been lent to short-sellers as part of bets they’ll fall in price. It’s now the most expensive American stock to short. (DealBook, Business Insider)• SoftBank is reportedly in talks to raise $15 billion more for its Vision Fund. (Bloomberg)• The consulting firm Accenture agreed to buy Droga5, one of the big independent advertising agencies. (NYT)Politics and policy• The arrest of a Chinese national carrying malware at Mar-a-Lago shows how hard it is for a presidential home to double as a moneymaking business. (WaPo)• The chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee formally requested six years of President Trump’s tax returns, while the House Intelligence Committee has asked for documents related to his inauguration. (NYT)• Senate Republicans resorted to the “nuclear option” of limiting debate on presidential nominations for federal courts and administrative posts to speed up confirmation of Mr. Trump’s picks. (NYT)• Some of Robert Mueller’s investigators have told associates that Attorney General William Barr’s summary of their findings underplayed troubling conclusions about President Trump. (NYT)Boeing• Ethiopian investigators said that the pilots of the Ethiopian Airlines flight that crashed followed proper guidance. (NYT)• Some pilots said that Boeing should have provided more instructions for disabling the anti-stall software suspected in the two crashes. (WSJ)• The family of Ralph Nader’s niece, who was killed in the Ethiopian Airlines crash, plans to sue Boeing. (NYT)• Boeing hasn’t halted 737 Max production despite the global grounding of the Max 8 model. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May and the opposition leader, Jeremy Corbyn, have begun talks to devise a Brexit deal that could garner cross-party support. (NYT)• Parliament passed a bill to force Mrs. May to seek a further delay to the process and avoid a no-deal Brexit. (FT)Tech• Tesla delivered 63,000 vehicles in the first quarter — fewer than expected and down 31 percent from the fourth quarter of 2018. (NYT)• A.I. experts have called on Amazon to stop selling its facial-recognition technology to law enforcement because it’s biased against women and people of color. (NYT)• Australia passed a law threatening huge fines for social media companies that fail to take down “abhorrent violent material” rapidly. (NYT)• MIT is cutting ties with the Chinese tech giants Huawei and ZTE over security risks. (FT)• Google will now require suppliers to provide their workers with benefits, including parental leave and minimum wages. (Wired)Best of the rest• Has the yield curve predicted the next recession — or are its warnings being overplayed? (FT)• Six women have sued Jones Day, one of the world’s largest law firms, for pregnancy and gender discrimination. (NYT)• A report by BlackRock says that investors underestimate extreme weather risks. (FT)• China’s stimulus plan might be working. (FT)• Much of the U.S. is experiencing a Japan-style decline in working-age residents. (Upshot)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Chris Stanford(Want to get this briefing by email? Here’s the sign-up.)Good morning,We start today with a new indictment in Robert Mueller’s investigation, the increasingly urgent talks as the government shutdown continues and the leadership crisis in Venezuela. And it’s Friday, so there’s a new news quiz.Mr. Stone, a longtime informal adviser to President Trump, was arrested today and charged by Robert Mueller’s office with seven counts, including obstruction of an official proceeding, making false statements and witness tampering.The indictment is the first public move in months by Mr. Mueller, who is investigating Russia’s interference in the 2016 election and possible coordination with Trump associates.A self-described dirty trickster who began his career as a campaign aide for Richard Nixon, Mr. Stone has long maintained his innocence.Catch up: Here’s a look at everyone who has been charged in investigations related to the 2016 election.Background: During the 2016 presidential race, Mr. Stone presented himself to Trump campaign officials as a conduit of information from WikiLeaks, which was releasing damaging Democratic emails. Read our report from November.About 800,000 federal workers will miss a second consecutive paycheck today, after two measures aimed at ending the partial government shutdown failed as expected in the Senate.In back-to-back votes, lawmakers first blocked President Trump’s proposal to add $5.7 billion for his border wall to legislation to resume government funding, then defeated a Democratic measure that omitted the barrier. Here’s how every senator voted.What’s next: House Democrats are preparing to outline more than $5 billion in border security measures, a far larger sum than they initially supported. Mr. Trump mentioned “other alternatives” to break the impasse, presumably an emergency declaration that could allow him to shift funds from the military or the Army Corps of Engineers.News analysis: The president prides himself on being a master negotiator, but Speaker Nancy Pelosi “is a different kind of opponent, and one who so far has flummoxed him,” one of our congressional correspondents writes.As the shutdown continues, scientists, engineers and other highly skilled employees are starting to question the appeal of government work.“We didn’t get Ph.D.s just to sit around,” said a chemist at NASA, which has rarely struggled to attract top talent. Most of the space agency’s employees have been furloughed during the nearly six-week shutdown.Yesterday: Wilbur Ross, the commerce secretary, expressed confusion about why furloughed workers were visiting food banks and said they should take out loans. He’s one of several administration officials who have been criticized as sounding out-of-touch about the shutdown’s toll. For you: Aviation unions have raised concerns about the shutdown’s effect on air safety, but the president of the air traffic controllers’ union said, “The flying public is safe.” Here’s what else to know about air travel.President Trump has been determined not to disappoint supporters by giving ground on his campaign promise of a border wall.But the Southwest’s growing diversity and the president’s demeaning rhetoric about migrants are pulling parts of the region from the once-firm grip of Republicans. From California to Texas, all nine House members whose districts touch the border say a wall is the wrong solution for border security.Closer look: Two Times journalists are traveling the length of the 2,000-mile border between the U.S. and Mexico. Read their latest dispatch.Yesterday: The Trump administration said it would start preventing some asylum seekers from entering the U.S. from Mexico. The policy was first announced last month.The government of President Nicolás Maduro struck back on Thursday, winning the support of the country’s military as well as that of Russia, which warned the U.S. not to intervene. The opposition leader, Juan Guaidó, had declared himself the country’s legitimate president a day earlier.Forces loyal to Mr. Maduro killed at least 20 people and wounded many more during this week’s protests, the United Nations human rights office said today, citing sources in the country.News analysis: President Trump, who has aligned himself with autocratic leaders around the world, has drawn a red line with Mr. Maduro. Mr. Trump’s stance represents a departure from his “America First” policy of staying out of other nations’ internal affairs, our correspondents write.Explainer: We answered some common questions about the crisis, including the roles played by socialism, Western imperialism, or both.The Daily: Today’s episode discusses the power struggle in Venezuela.The sale of an under-construction apartment overlooking Central Park has drawn attention even in Manhattan, which is no stranger to multimillion-dollar real estate deals. This is the story of the most expensive residential sale in U.S. history and the hedge fund tycoon behind it.Taliban talks: Negotiators are working on a deal in which the U.S. would leave Afghanistan and the Taliban would pledge not to harbor terrorists.Jamal Khashoggi killing: An expert from the United Nations human rights office will investigate the death of the Saudi dissident in October, the agency said today.Florida bank shooting: Three of the five victims — all women — who were killed in the city of Sebring were identified on Thursday. “We believe it was a random act,” a police official said.Facebook integration: Mark Zuckerberg, the company’s chief executive, plans to unify the underlying infrastructure of its various messaging services: WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger.California utility is cleared: Pacific Gas and Electric Company, with billions of dollars of potential wildfire liabilities pushing it toward bankruptcy, has been cleared of responsibility for a giant fire in 2017. Its stock closed up 75 percent.Deal to rename Macedonia: Greek lawmakers voted today to recognize the newly renamed nation of North Macedonia, clearing the path for it to join NATO and potentially the European Union.Wisconsin kidnapping: Jayme Closs, the 13-year-old girl who escaped this month after being held captive for 88 days, will receive at least $25,000 of the reward money that had been offered for her return.Snapshot: Above, Marzieh Hashemi, an American journalist for Iran’s Press TV, was interviewed on Thursday after a 10-day detention by U.S. law enforcement officials. She had been ordered to appear before a grand jury in Washington as a material witness but was not charged with a crime.Australian Open: Novak Djokovic beat Lucas Pouille in straight sets to advance to Sunday’s final against Rafael Nadal.News quiz: Did you follow the headlines this week? Test yourself.Late-night comedy: Jimmy Fallon learned that a legal marijuana vendor was offering free medical cannabis to government workers during the shutdown: “Guess what travelers: That T.S.A. line can get slower.” What we’re reading: This National Geographic interview. “How long ago did Native Americans arrive here? (Longer ago than we thought.) How did they get here? (Complicated.) What was the nature of the fantastical world they found? Craig Childs, a writer, adventurer and author of ‘Atlas of a Lost World’ has a lot of answers,” writes Michael Powell, a sports columnist.Cook: Molasses gives ginger cookies a decidedly adult, almost caramel flavor.Read: These nine new books are recommended by our editors, including an account of a tribe of hunter-gatherers living on a remote Indonesian island.Watch: M. Night Shyamalan’s box office hit “Glass,” and then join our discussion about everything in the film that didn’t make sense.Go: The Metropolitan Opera’s revival of “Pelléas” shows its new music director, Yannick Nézet-Séguin, is fully in charge. It’s a Critic’s Pick.Smarter Living: Reduce your energy use by making sure your home is properly insulated. Experts recommend hiring an energy auditor, who can tell you whether your walls need blown-in insulation, which can save money in the long term. Check with your utility company: Some will send energy auditors for free or offer rebates.We’ve also got a guide to tidying up your tech and digital worlds, Marie Kondo-style.Robert Burns, the Scottish poet, was born on this day in 1759. He wrote hundreds of poems and songs, including the New Year’s Eve favorite “Auld Lang Syne,” before his life was cut short by illness.His use of vernacular is a barrier for many English speakers, but it is difficult to overstate the esteem he commands in Scotland and in the hearts of expatriates like this writer, who grew up in Burns’s home of Ayrshire.His verses gave dignity and voice to the disenfranchised, and he is beloved for his romanticism and sense of humor. Scots around the world celebrate his birth with “Burns suppers.”The most elaborate celebrations feature pipers marching in with a haggis (a traditional concoction of minced offal, oatmeal and spices) to a standing ovation, and a recitation by the host of Burns’s praise-filled “Address to a Haggis.”So tonight, whatever is on your plate, join me in a toast to one of Scotland’s best-loved sons.That’s it for this briefing. Have a good weekend.— ChrisThank youTo Eleanor Stanford and James K. Williamson for their cultural and Smarter Living tips. Jeanie Kay, a designer on the briefings team, wrote today’s Back Story. You can reach the team at briefing@nytimes.com.P.S.• We’re listening to “The Daily.” Today’s episode is about the crisis in Venezuela.• Here’s today’s mini crossword puzzle, and a clue: Novelist Austen (4 letters). You can find all our puzzles here. • Last year, The Times published articles in 10 languages in addition to English: Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Portuguese, Spanish and Russian.Chris Stanford is based in London and writes the U.S. version of the Morning Briefing. He also compiles a weekly news quiz. He was previously a producer for the desktop home page and mobile site, helping to present The New York Times’s news report to readers. Before joining The Times in 2013, he was an editor and designer at The Washington Post and other news organizations.  @stanfordc Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Pam BelluckPALO ALTO, Calif. — “Success!” read the subject line of the email. The text, in imperfect English, began: “Good News! The women is pregnant, the genome editing success!”The sender was He Jiankui, an ambitious, young Chinese scientist. The recipient was his former academic adviser, Stephen Quake, a star Stanford bioengineer and inventor.“Wow, that’s quite an achievement!” Dr. Quake wrote back. “Hopefully she will carry to term...”Months later, the world learned the outcome of that pregnancy: twins born from genetically engineered embryos, the first gene-altered babies. Reaction was fierce. Many scientists and ethicists condemned the experiment as unethical and unsafe, fearing that it could inspire rogue or frivolous attempts to create permanent genetic changes using unproven and unregulated methods.A Chinese government investigation concluded in January that Dr. He had “seriously violated ethics, scientific research integrity and relevant state regulations.”Questions about other American scientists’ knowledge of Dr. He’s plans and their failure to sound a loud alarm have been an issue since Dr. He revealed his work in November.But now, Dr. Quake is facing a Stanford investigation into his interaction with Dr. He. That inquiry began after the president of Dr. He’s Chinese university wrote to Stanford’s president alleging that Dr. Quake had helped Dr. He.“Prof. Stephen Quake provided instructions to the preparation and implementation of the experiment, the publication of papers, the promotion and news release, and the strategies to react after the news release,” he alleged in letters obtained by The New York Times. Dr. Quake’s actions, he asserted, “violated the internationally recognized academic ethics and codes of conduct, and must be condemned.”Dr. Quake denied the allegations in a lengthy interview, saying his interaction with Dr. He, who was a postdoctoral student in his lab eight years ago, had been misinterpreted.“I had nothing to do with this and I wasn’t involved,” Dr. Quake said. “I hold myself to high ethical standards.”Dr. Quake showed The Times what he said were the last few years of his email communication with Dr. He. The correspondence provides a revealing window into the informal way researchers navigate a fast-moving, ethically controversial field.The emails show that Dr. He, 35, informed Dr. Quake, 49, of milestones, including that the woman became pregnant and gave birth. They show that Dr. Quake advised Dr. He to obtain ethical approval from Chinese institutions and submit the results for vetting by peer-reviewed journals, and that he agreed to Dr. He’s requests to discuss issues like when to present his research publicly.None of the notes suggest Dr. Quake was involved in the work himself. They do contain expressions of polite encouragement like “good luck!” Though Dr. Quake said he urged Dr. He not to pursue the project during an August 2016 meeting, the emails, mostly sent in 2017 and 2018, don’t tell him to stop.As global institutions like the World Health Organization work to create a system to keep cowboy scientists from charging into the Wild West of embryo editing, Dr. Quake’s interactions with Dr. He reflect issues that leading scientific institutions are now grappling with.When and where should scientists report controversial research ideas that colleagues share with them in confidence? Have scientists acted inappropriately if they provide conventional research advice to someone conducting an unorthodox experiment?“A lot of people wish that those who knew or suspected would have made more noise,” said R. Alta Charo, a bioethicist at the University of Wisconsin-Madison who co-led a 2017 national committee on human embryo editing.But she said scientists were not necessarily complicit if instead of trying to stop rogue experimenters, they advised them to follow ethical and research standards in hopes that institutions would intervene.Rice University has been investigating Michael Deem, Dr. He’s Ph.D. adviser, because of allegations that he was actively involved in the project; he had said publicly that he had been present during parts of it. Dr. Deem’s lawyers issued a statement strongly denying the allegations.The correspondence Dr. Quake shared provides new details about Dr. He’s project, also called germline editing, including indications that the twin girls were quite premature and remained hospitalized for several weeks. They were born in October, contrary to previous reports.Dr. Quake is an entrepreneur whose inventions include blood tests to detect Down syndrome in pregnancy and to avoid organ transplant rejection. He is co-president of an institute funded by the Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg and his wife, Dr. Priscilla Chan. He does not do gene editing and said he was surprised when Dr. He told him during a 2016 visit to Stanford that he wanted to be the first to create gene-edited babies.“I said, ‘That’s a terrible idea. Why would you want to do that?’” Dr. Quake recalled. “He kind of pushed back and it was clear that he wasn’t listening to me.”Dr. Quake changed tack. “I said, ‘All right, if you’re not going to be convinced that I think this is a bad idea and you want to go down this path, then you need to do it properly and with proper respect for the people who are involved, and the field.’”That meant obtaining ethical approval from the equivalent of American institutional review boards (known as I.R.B.s), Dr. Quake advised, as well as getting informed consent from the couples participating and only editing genes to address a serious medical need.“I didn’t think it was something he would seriously do,” said Dr. Quake, adding that he assumed if Dr. He sought ethical approval and was rebuffed, “presumably he’d stop.”Soon afterward, Dr. He emailed: “I will take your suggestion that we will get a local ethic approve before we move on to the first genetic edited human baby. Please keep it in confidential.”In June 2017, Dr. He, nicknamed JK, emailed a document saying a hospital ethics committee had approved his proposal, in which he boasted that his plan could be compared to Nobel-winning research.“It was good to see that he had engaged with his I.R.B.-equivalent there and had approval to do his research, and I’m thinking it’s their responsibility to manage this,” Dr. Quake said in the interview. “If in my interactions with JK I had any hint of misconduct, I would have handled it completely differently. And I think I would have been very aggressive about telling people about that.”As a postdoctoral adviser to Dr. He and other students, Dr. Quake considered his role to be mentorship. Dr. He’s work in his lab did not involve gene editing; it concerned  immune responses to the flu vaccine.Dr. He was “bright and ambitious,” Dr. Quake said, but “he was, I felt, always in too much of a hurry and I, you know, worried that he was a sort that would cut corners a little bit.”After leaving for the university job in China in 2012, Dr. He sought Dr. Quake’s help with starting a company based on a genome-sequencing technique Dr. Quake had invented. Dr. Quake, whose American firm selling that technique had gone bankrupt, made introductions that helped Dr. He license patents for his company, Direct Genomics. Dr. Quake visited in 2015 but eventually declined an offer to serve on the company’s scientific advisory board.In Dr. He’s 2017 correspondence, he said he would be editing a gene called CCR5, altering a mutation that allows people to become infected with H.I.V. Many scientists have since argued it was medically unnecessary because babies of H.I.V.-positive parents can be protected other ways. Dr. Quake said he believed there was not scientific consensus about that.In early April 2018, Dr. He’s “Success!” email said “the embryo with CCR5 gene edited was transplanted to the women 10 days ago, and today the pregnancy is confirmed!”Dr. Quake did not reply immediately. Instead, he forwarded the email to someone he described as a senior gene-editing expert “who I felt could give me advice.” He redacted the name of the expert.“FYI this is probably the first human germ line editing,” Dr. Quake wrote. “I strongly urged him to get IRB approval, and it is my understanding that he did. His goal is to help hiv positive parents conceive. It’s a bit early for him to celebrate but if she carries to term it’s going to be big news I suspect.”The expert replied: “I was only telling someone last week that my assumption was that this had already happened. It will definitely be news …”Dr. Quake considered that response “very blasé,” he said. “He’s not surprised at all. And he’s not saying, ‘Oh my god, you got to notify the mythical science police.’”Six months later, in mid-October, Dr. He emailed again: “Great news! the baby is born (please keep it in confidential).”Dr. He asked to meet on a planned visit to San Francisco, saying, “I want get help from you on how to announce the result, PR and ethics.”Dr. Quake replied, “Let’s definitely meet up.”In that meeting, Dr. Quake recalled, Dr. He walked him through what he had done. “And I pressed him on the ethical approval, and I said this is going to get an enormous amount of attention, it’s going to be very closely scrutinized. Are you sure you’ve done everything correctly?”Dr. He’s response unsettled him, he said. “The little corner-cutting thing came up again: ‘Well, there were actually two hospitals involved and you know, we had approval from one and we did work at both hospitals.’ And I said, ‘Well you better make sure you have that straightened out.’”Back in China, Dr. He wrote: “Good news, the hospital which conducted the clinical trial approved the ethic letter,” adding, “They signed to acknowledge the ethic letters from another hospital.”Dr. Quake replied, “Great news, thanks for the update.”In late October, Dr. Quake texted someone he called an “extremely prominent scientist in the field,” writing: “First genome edited human baby — done! (in China, where else?)”“Interesting. Source?” the scientist responded.“Someone I know well who walked me through all the data,” Dr. Quake wrote. “Should go public soon.”He added, “Mums the word for a few more weeks but I thought you would like to know.”At the scientist’s suggestion, they spoke on the phone.Asked about the scientist’s reaction, Dr. Quake said, “Also not terribly surprised, not an oh-my-god thing, like it’s inevitable, like the inevitable has happened.”The scientist suggested that Dr. He share his work at a genome-editing conference in Hong Kong.About a week later, Dr. He’s publicist, Ryan Ferrell, contacted Dr. Quake, worried that Dr. He presenting the project publicly so soon could cause “severe and permanent harms to his reputation and the field.” And, “the twins are still in the hospital, so no positive imagery.”Dr. Quake, in Hong Kong for other commitments, met Dr. He and Mr. Ferrell, telling them, “you’re going to be held to a very high standard,” he said. “‘People’s first response is going to be you’re faking it.’”He advised Dr. He to submit the research to a peer-reviewed journal, and Dr. He did so.Then, because journal review takes time, Dr. Quake said he advised Dr. He not to go public in Hong Kong, but to speak privately with key experts there so they can “get socialized to what’s coming and will be more likely to comment favorably on your work.”But Dr. He was not persuaded. “I do not want to wait for 6 months or longer to announce the results, otherwise, people will say ‘a Chinese scientist secretly hide the baby for 6 months.’”Dr. Quake pushed back: “It is prudent to let the peer review process follow its course.”But Dr. He went forward with his Hong Kong talk. Two days before it, after news of the twins broke, Dr. Quake emailed, “Good luck with your upcoming presentation!” But he added, “please remove my name” from the slide acknowledging people who had helped.“He was spinning up this huge press thing around it,” Dr. Quake explained in the interview. “It was going to go well or poorly, I didn’t really know. But it wasn’t something I was involved in and I didn’t want my name on it.”Dr. Quake is not sure what consequences he thinks Dr. He should face.But he believes that the shock and horror some scientists now express belies the unruffled response of the experts he consulted.Asked if he should have handled things differently, Dr. Quake said: “Well, hindsight is 20-20. I mean, you could say yes I should have done many other things.”“But,” he continued, “as these things unfold, you’re in the moment, and you know, he’s doing legitimate scientific research — many people would define it that way. He’s got I.R.B. approval and his institution is regulating the human subject stuff and you sort of believe all that.”He added: “To the extent that it wasn’t obvious misconduct, what does a person in my position do? Encourage him to do it right, his research, right? I mean, that’s what I believed I was doing.”Follow @NYTHealth on Twitter. | Sign up for the  Science Times newsletter.OpinionJamie MetzlAdvertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byNew York City’s push to admit more black and Hispanic students to its best high schools has provoked strong emotions from Asian-American graduates. Here’s what they have to say. By Eliza Shapiro[What you need to know to start the day: Get New York Today in your inbox.]Mayor Bill de Blasio’s proposal to overhaul admissions for New York City’s elite high schools has proved highly divisive, leaving some Asian-American students feeling that they are being pitted against their black and Hispanic neighbors.His idea has also made the city a national focal point in the debate over race, class and fairness in education.If his plan — which would scrap the admissions exam and instead reserve seats at the eight specialized high schools for the top students at every city middle school — is approved by the Legislature, the selective schools’ racial makeup would change practically overnight. Offers to Asian-American students would fall by about half, according to a recent report, but would increase fivefold for black students. Last year, only 10 percent of the students in the city’s specialized high schools were black and Hispanic, though nearly 70 percent of the school system as a whole is black and Hispanic.And of 900 incoming freshman admitted to Stuyvesant — the most competitive of the schools — in 2018, only 10 were black. “There is not a single Asian-American I have spoken with who doesn’t think it’s a problem,” said John Liu, a Bronx High School of Science graduate and New York state senator.Though Mr. de Blasio’s proposal has sparked intense opposition from some Asian-American groups, interviews with eight alumni from four of the schools show that Asian-Americans are torn about the plan, and are grappling with the big questions it raises about how elite schools should select students in New York City and the rest of the country. Ms. Rahman grew up in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, and graduated from Binghamton University. She thinks the mayor’s plan is a “first but limited step” toward integration. “We used to joke that whoever had the most money to spend on test prep would probably go to Stuyvesant.” That was how Ms. Rahman was introduced to the specialized school debate as a young Bangladeshi immigrant living in Brooklyn.In high school, she came to believe that the admissions process was about money, not merit. Now, she said, “I feel like that system shouldn’t really exist.”That was partially because of how the high-stakes culture affected students. Ms. Rahman, who graduated high school in 2010, remembered that a boy in her year almost drowned in the school’s swimming pool after staying up all night to study. Ms. Rahman said she was sympathetic to the Asian-American families who want to keep the test — to a point. “I understand for them they feel they have little social capital in this country, one of the few things they have is being taken away,” she said. “But one thing I can’t accept is when they say things like, ‘Our kids have worked hard. We deserve this.’ The unspoken thing is that other kids in other families don’t deserve this.”Mr. Kim grew up in Elmhurst, Queens, and graduated from Princeton University. He strongly opposes the mayor’s plan.“The school is defined by the way students are selected,” said Mr. Kim, who moved from South Korea to Queens when he was 5. “If you change that, you change it all.”For Mr. Kim, a mediocre middle school student who was often in trouble, Stuyvesant, from which he graduated in 1993, was a life raft. Now, as the president of Stuyvesant’s alumni organization, an advocacy group with deep ties to politicians, he has one of the most powerful voices in the debate about specialized school admissions. And he believes that in order for future students to have the kind of experience he had, they have to gain admission the same way he did. The arguments for nixing the test have surprised and offended him. “How is this possible, that people are saying we’re segregated, we’re Jim Crow,” Mr. Kim said. “These words are too harsh. It makes me feel like I’m a bad person.”Mr. Kwan grew up in Chinatown, Manhattan, and graduated from Hunter College. He mostly backs the plan, but understands the misgivings. “The schools are a hope, a mythology, a dream,” said Mr. Kwan, who does not believe that going to a specialized school will help Asian-Americans get to the highest levels of business and government in America. “Getting into the school is not a guaranteed ticket to success, and being in another school shouldn’t be a guaranteed failure,” he said.Mr. Kwan, who graduated high school in 1999, can’t remember a time before he knew about the specialized high school exam — referred to as simply “the test” — when he was growing up. “It was a scary time in Chinatown,” he said of the week admissions offers went out. Two decades later, he is frustrated that the mayor did not consult Asian-American leaders before announcing the plan. “There’s a general sense that the larger Asian-American community is underrepresented and ignored,” Mr. Kwan said.Ms. Ahmad grew up in Fresh Meadows, Queens, and graduated from New York University. She is in favor of the mayor’s proposal.Ms. Ahmad, who moved to Queens from Pakistan when she was an infant and graduated from high school in 2012, believes Asian families who do not support the city’s plan are ignoring a crucial point. “I think what people are missing when they say we are being punished, what they are neglecting to see is, the Asian-American community by and large has a lot of privilege that the black and Latinx community does not,” she said, referring to an “elaborate system of networks, test prep and social capital.”“We aren’t dealing with the generational trauma of slavery, Jim Crow and redlining,” said Ms. Ahmad, noting that her father is a taxi driver and her family is far from wealthy. Still, she said, “People discount the fact that we have more resources, we are more privileged, and because of that, white Americans tend to hold us up as a model minority.”“A lot of people think we’re a monolith, and this is not just the case,” Ms. Ahmad said, referring to Asian-American specialized school alumni. Mr. Rapatalo grew up in East Flatbush, Brooklyn, and graduated from New York University. He supports the admissions reform plan.Mr. Rapatalo’s voice cracked when he explained why he is such a forceful supporter of change at his alma mater. “I’m fighting for my friends,” said Mr. Rapatalo, who grew up in a mostly black part of Brooklyn.Well over two decades after he graduated in 1993, Mr. Rapatalo can still name all of the black students in his class, along with the other Filipino-American students. He said that showed just how segregated the school was — and still is. When he sees comments on alumni Facebook groups suggesting that black and Hispanic students do not work hard, Mr. Rapatalo thinks, “How dare you? How many black and brown people do you know?” Mr. Rapatalo said he worried that Asian-American families who support the test were playing a losing game of specialized school admissions chess. “Just because we’ve gamed the system, does that mean we’re in the right?” Mr. Rapatalo asked. “The folks at the bottom fight for scraps.” But all the while, he added, “white families have it figured out.”Mr. Fung grew up in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, and graduated from Stanford University. He supports affirmative action policies, but opposes the mayor’s plan.“It’s all related.” That is the message Mr. Fung took from his run-in with Mark Zuckerberg in a Stanford University computer lab shortly after Facebook launched. Mr. Fung, who was later hired to be Facebook’s 15th engineer, said his chance encounter was not luck. He was there, he said, because of the opportunities Stuyvesant gave him. Mr. Fung, who graduated from the school in 1998, has spent the last few months wrestling with competing, deeply held beliefs: that elite schools everywhere should be more racially diverse, and that New York’s Asian-American families have a great deal to lose if specialized school admissions are changed.He wants change that would enroll more black and Hispanic students in the schools. But he opposes Mr. de Blasio’s approach, calling it “an experiment.”“If you go to either extreme, some group is losing out,” he said. “If we go with de Blasio’s proposal, people like me maybe wouldn’t have been able to get into a specialized high school,” he said. “That’s our only avenue to a good college.”Ms. Tan grew up in Chinatown, Manhattan, and graduated from Columbia University. She backs the specialized high school plan, but wants the city to release a broader school integration plan as well.“I know what it does to kids, when you don’t see anyone except for one race,” said Ms. Tan, who has spent her teaching career in low-income public schools in Chicago and Brooklyn. Ms. Tan, who graduated from high school in 2007, recalled talking to a Stuyvesant graduate who had only met five black people before he went to college. “That really doesn’t do much for students who are trying to be in a more diverse world,” she added.As a teacher, she has learned what selective admissions processes do to vulnerable students left behind. “Creaming of the crop harms schools and neighborhoods,” she said. “It pushes kids to say, ‘I can get out of this neighborhood, I don’t have to give back.’”Mr. Liu grew up in Bayside, Queens, and graduated from Binghamton University. He is keeping “an open mind” about the proposal.“These schools have been a very central part of my life,” Mr. Liu, the former city comptroller and mayoral candidate, said. He and his brother each commuted four hours round-trip to Bronx Science; his wife graduated from Brooklyn Tech; and their son went to Stuyvesant. As the newly appointed chair of the State Senate’s New York City education committee, he will now help determine the fate of the admissions exam.“Asian-Americans are just as concerned about the seeming lack of diversity” as the rest of the city, Mr. Liu said. But he is furious with Mr. de Blasio and the schools chancellor, Richard A. Carranza, over how they presented their proposal.“The way de Blasio rolled this out, he turned it in a zero-sum race based on race,” he said. “That’s an absolute nonstarter from the get-go.” The mayor, Mr. Liu added, “pitted people against each other.” The chancellor last year said, “I just don’t buy into the narrative that any one ethnic group owns admission to these schools.” Mr. Liu said it was a comment “that nobody will forget or forgive him for.”Eliza Shapiro is a reporter covering New York City education. She joined The Times in 2018. Eliza grew up in New York City and attended public and private schools in Manhattan and Brooklyn.  @elizashapiro Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Tuesday. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump plans to nominate David Malpass, the under secretary of the Treasury for international affairs, to head the World Bank, according to administration officials.He’s likely to land the gig. “The nomination must be ratified by the bank’s board,” writes Peter Baker of the NYT, “but by tradition, the United States, the largest shareholder, has long named its president.” Mr. Trump is expected to announce his pick tomorrow.And he could shake things up. “Like Mr. Trump, he has questioned the scope and mission of international institutions such as the World Bank, saying they have grown ‘more intrusive’ and need to be refocused,” Mr. Baker writes. “The larger trend toward multilateralism, he has said, ‘has gone substantially too far.’”That makes him a contentious choice. “The prospect of such a steadfast critic of multilateral lenders leading the World Bank has already sparked concern and dismay within the institution and among international and former U.S. officials who deal with global finance and development,” write James Politi and Sam Fleming of the FT.There were less controversial options. Indra K. Nooyi, the former C.E.O. of PepsiCo; Ray Washburne, the president of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation; and Heidi Cruz, a Goldman Sachs executive and the wife of Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, were all reportedly considered.After the government shutdown postponed his annual address to Congress, President Trump will finally deliver the speech tonight. (His theme? “Choosing Greatness.”) Here’s what’s coming up:A trade plea. He will call on Congress to back the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Free Trade Agreement, meant to replace Nafta. A draft of the speech described Americans as suffering “decades of flawed trade deals.”Plus one for infrastructure. He’s also expected to urge lawmakers to find budget space for repairing and upgrading roads, bridges and more. But the WSJ reports that Mr. Trump feels iffy about some elements of his previous proposals, including private-public partnerships.Border wall demands. Mr. Trump still plans to request money to pay for a wall between the U.S. and Mexico, though he lost support during the shutdown. He is still considering declaring a national emergency to get it, despite an expected challenge from Democrats and growing opposition among Republican senators.And the rebuttal. Democrats’ response will come from Stacey Abrams, a rising star who narrowly lost last year’s race for Georgia’s governorship. (Many in the party want her to run for Senate next year; she may do so.)For decades, Bill Gross was a titan of finance. He turned the investment firm Pimco into a $2 trillion giant. But by the time he announced his retirement yesterday from Janus Henderson Investments — the firm he joined in 2014 after a dispute with Pimco — he was at a low point.The numbers prove it. “Pimco Total Return, the fund he once ruled, returned 2.54 percent, annualized, in the three years through Friday, trouncing the paltry 0.95 percent returned by his new fund, Janus Henderson Global Unconstrained,” Jeff Sommer of the NYT writes. His Janus fund shrank from a peak of $2.2 billion to under $1 billion last year. Mr. Gross was an icon of the bond world. He drew investors by combining mathematical models and broad economic analyses. He advised the Treasury Department during the 2008 financial crisis and gained a reputation as a quirky oracle of the financial world.But he made one fatal error. Robin Wigglesworth of the FT asks whether Mr. Gross was more lucky than brilliant and how much of his success was owed to former colleagues. He picks brilliance, but adds, “Even investing stars need a supporting cast to excel, and forgetting this can be hazardous.”Need evidence that U.S. law enforcement is taking potential thefts of American technology seriously? Look no further than a report by Bloomberg Businessweek about an F.B.I. sting operation targeting Huawei, the Chinese telecom giant.How it went down: An American start-up, Akahn, claims to have developed glass that can make smartphone screens nearly indestructible, and has shopped it around smartphone makers. But Huawei took suspicious liberties when testing a sample. The F.B.I. got involved, ultimately organizing a sting on Huawei executives in Las Vegas last month.Businessweek got a ringside seat. Erik Schatzker, the article’s author, writes that he watched the sting operation from 100 feet away, “in front of a gelato stand.”What now? Unclear. “It’s possible that the government will conclude there aren’t grounds for an indictment,” Mr. Schatzker writes. “If that’s so, it raises a question about the broader U.S. crackdown on Huawei: Is it based on hard evidence of wrongdoing or driven by a desperation to catch the Chinese company doing something — anything — bad?” But an indictment “would show just how far and wide Huawei is willing to go to steal American trade secrets.”More Huawei news: Some telecom companies are standing by the company despite all the scrutiny. And Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany set out conditions that Huawei must meet to build 5G networks in her country.Automation is changing work, flushing people without a college degree out of productive industries like manufacturing and high-tech services and into low-wage dead-end jobs, Eduardo Porter of the NYT writes:• “There is a small island of highly educated professionals making good wages at corporations like Intel or Boeing, which reap hundreds of thousands of dollars in profit per employee.”• But “the employment footprint of highly productive industries, like finance, manufacturing, information services and wholesale trade, has shrunk over the last 30 years.”• “That island sits in the middle of a sea of less educated workers who are stuck at businesses like hotels, restaurants and nursing homes that generate much smaller profits per employee and stay viable primarily by keeping wages low.”• “Recent research has concluded that robots are reducing the demand for workers and weighing down wages, which have been rising more slowly than the productivity of workers.”Democrats in New York State’s Senate are fighting Gov. Andrew Cuomo’s $3 billion plan to bring Amazon offices to Queens — and may have the power to halt it altogether.What happened: The Senate named Senator Michael Gianaris, who has called the incentives promised to Amazon “offensive,” to the little-known Public Authorities Control Board.Why that matters: The board, as Mr. Cuomo has noted, will vote on Amazon’s so-called HQ2 plan, and could veto it. (It helped block Michael Bloomberg’s plan to build a stadium in Manhattan’s West Side 14 years ago.)What’s next: The governor could reject Mr. Gianaris’s nomination, but it would lead to a political fight. Mr. Cuomo’s office said that the nomination put the self-interest of a flip-flopping opponent of Amazon “above the state’s economic growth.” Mr. Gianaris said he wouldn’t use the position to seek concessions from Amazon: “I’m not looking to negotiate a better deal.”More Jeff Bezos news: Washington Post employees aren’t happy that their company’s owner paid over $10 million for a Super Bowl ad.The Federal Reserve’s chairman spent the evening of his 66th birthday dining at the White House with President Trump and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin.On the agenda: “Recent economic developments and the outlook for growth, employment and inflation,” according to a Federal Reserve statement. “He did not discuss his expectations for monetary policy, except to stress that the path of policy will depend entirely on incoming economic information and what that means for the outlook.”And on the menu? Steak, an anonymous source told the WSJ.Michael O’Leary will become the C.E.O. of Ryanair’s parent company, but will relinquish that role at the airline.Deals• The workplace messaging company Slack filed confidentially to go public. It’s skipping the traditional I.P.O. process in the same way Spotify did, by pursuing a direct listing. (NYT)• Vivendi is reportedly considering selling a stake in Universal Music Group, valuing the business at $25 billion. (Bloomberg)• Papa John’s received a $200 million investment from Starboard Value, the activist hedge fund, and named the investment firm’s chief, Jeffrey Smith, as its chairman. (WSJ)• An investor group led by Hellman & Friedman agreed to buy Ultimate Software Group, an H.R. specialist, for about $11 billion. (WSJ)• Gannett rejected a $1.3 billion hostile takeover bid by the hedge-fund backed publisher MNG Enterprises. (NYT)• The E.U.’s expected rejection of a merger of Siemens’s and Alstom’s rail businesses raises questions about its antitrust policies. (Bloomberg)Politics and policy• Federal prosecutors ordered the Trump inaugural committee to hand over documents about its donors and finances. (NYT)• President Trump plans to name a former oil lobbyist, David Bernhardt, as interior secretary. (NYT)• “Soak the rich” tax proposals by Democratic lawmakers have drawn condemnation from colleagues in Washington — but polls show voters support them. (Politico)• Howard Schultz will take three to four months to decide whether to run for president as an independent, and promised not to inadvertently help re-elect Mr. Trump. (Politico)• A case that Congress and Mr. Trump should increase spending to prevent an economic slowdown. (NYT Op-Ed)Trade• Some trade hard-liners fear that President Trump is being played by China during current negotiations. If the talks fail, the U.N. warns that subsequent tariff increases could be “significantly negative” for global trade. (Bloomberg, BBC)• How U.S. criminal laws became weapons in the China trade war. (DealBook)• And how China’s online censorship helps stifle trade. (NYT Op-Ed)Tech• Google’s parent, Alphabet, reported that its profit margins shrank in the fourth quarter because of huge investments. Investors wiped 3 percent off its share price in after-hours trading. (FT)• As Facebook turned 15 years old yesterday, Mark Zuckerberg complained that people “overly emphasize the negative” aspects of its impact. (Facebook)• There’s interest in Silicon Valley in a wealth tax. But a major obstacle is how to value private-company assets. (Information)• Instagram’s chief, Adam Mosseri, said that the social network hadn’t done enough to help prevent suicide and self-harm. (Telegraph)• Quadriga CX, a digital money exchange, has about $145 million of its customers’ cryptocurrency locked with passwords its former C.E.O. took with him to the grave. (Bloomberg)Brexit• Prime Minister Theresa May will head to Northern Ireland today to rally support for her Brexit deal with the E.U., and promises that she will “find a way” to keep the Irish border open. (Bloomberg)• The issue has left the Bank of England uncertain whether to raise interest rates. (FT)• Britain will ease import regulations to make a no-deal Brexit less problematic for its businesses. (WSJ)• Reportedly, it could even cut import tariffs to zero in that scenario, which some British companies find far from reassuring. (HuffPo)• The Bank of England and European regulators agreed to cooperate on oversight of clearinghouses to keep trades flowing smoothly if no deal is reached. (Bloomberg)Best of the rest• Australian banks overcharged clients, including clients who had died. (NYT)• A Federal Reserve paper says that negative rates would have accelerated America’s economic recovery. (WSJ)• Russia’s economic growth looks sensational. It may be too good to be true. (Bloomberg Opinion)• Betting on low-volatility stocks is usually safe. Not now. (Bloomberg)• An annual income of $81,000 puts you in India’s 1 percent; in the U.A.E., it’s $894,000. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Friday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.President Trump might keep some tariffs on Chinese goods even if Beijing and Washington reach a trade agreement, he told the NYT yesterday, after delegates from both countries wrapped up another round of negotiations.“Without the tariffs, we wouldn’t be talking,” he said in an interview.How were the discussions? According to Mr. Trump’s posts on Twitter, they went well, “with good intent and spirit on both sides.” He hosted the negotiators in the Oval Office and suggested that President Xi Jinping of China was willing to welcome more American companies and to buy more American products — including five million tons of soybeans. The Chinese representatives, led by the American-educated vice premier, Liu He, said that the two sides had made “important progress” and had “candid, specific and fruitful” talks. Robert Lighthizer, the top American trade negotiator, was less sanguine. “We did not come off the rails,” he said. “That’s significant.”What’s next? The two sides hope to reach an agreement by early March, before Mr. Trump plans to increase tariffs after a 90-day truce. Mr. Lighthizer and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, will go to Beijing after the Chinese New Year holiday this month to prepare for  talks between the two presidents. Mr. Trump said that summit meeting would happen “in the near future” and that it would address “some of the long standing and more difficult points.” According to Myron Brilliant, the head of international affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, “we are in the fifth inning of a nine-inning game.” He also used another sports analogy to describe the negotiations:I would now say we are at halftime of the Super Bowl of trade relations.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Facebook’s 35,000 employees got a reminder this week of Apple’s power over their day-to-day routines. So did workers at Google.After Facebook and Google ran afoul of Apple’s rules for distributing apps, Apple hit back by blocking the two Silicon Valley giants from using the internal apps and updates that run on iPhone software.Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook’s chief operating officer, told the NYT that the offending app had not been a secret and had operated with users’ consent. Apple eventually restored access for both Facebook and Google, but its point had been made: Cross us at your peril.The tension with Apple was not Facebook’s only concern.• The social network, in a collaboration with Twitter, said that other countries appeared to be following the Russian playbook for using social media to disseminate propaganda and disinformation. One campaign, from Iran, touched on the conflict in Syria and conspiracy theories about the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. Facebook said it had removed 783 pages, groups and accounts with ties to Iran, while Twitter said it had taken down more than 2,000 accounts.• Facebook, already being investigated by the authorities in Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York, is also said to be the target of several more inquiries, including in Connecticut, Illinois and Pennsylvania, over its mishandling of user data.Deutsche has been in a lot of trouble for a very long time. Now, it’s looking increasingly probable that the German government will step in to combine it with its smaller, but also struggling competitor, Commerzbank.Deutsche reported its first full-year net profit since 2014 today but still failed to meet analysts’ expectations. Its fourth quarter showed continued weakness.The bank has lurched through various failed restructuring efforts, has been hit with fine after fine and was recently raided by prosecutors pursuing a money-laundering investigation. Its stock price has more than halved in the past year. If it is unable to recover on its own, it is thought a merger with Commerzbank may occur by midyear.But that may not be wise, writes Elisa Martinuzzi of Bloomberg:The deal looks like the option of last resort. Combining two of Europe’s most inefficient banks to create an even bigger supertanker would require tens of thousands of job cuts and a risky (read costly) integration to stand a chance of working.The Labor Department will release its monthly estimate of hiring and unemployment at 8:30 a.m. But there’s even more uncertainty than usual, writes the NYT’s Ben Casselman. Here’s what to look for:Crucial time: The United States’ decade-long expansion could be nearing its end, and the partial government shutdown has added to those fears. Not all the effects will show up in the jobs data, but they will make the report unusually hard to interpret.Potential impact: There is one place the shutdown will probably show up: the jobless rate. Unemployment could go up by one- or two-tenths of a percentage point.Solid foundation: The job market is strong, however. Claims for unemployment insurance recently hit a nearly 50-year low, and paychecks are growing.Investors looked to earnings reports yesterday from two bellwethers of the U.S. economy: Amazon and General Electric. Both seem to be struggling with growing pains.Stiff competition: The latest quarterly results suggested that Amazon’s retail business not only faced more competition, it was also maturing, as growth slowed from its usual breakneck pace. But the company compensated by expanding its highly profitable cloud and advertising businesses. Its revenue guidance fell short of expectations, sending shares down sharply in after-hours trading.Seeking a turnaround: G.E.’s fourth-quarter results pointed to the depth of the company’s challenges, despite a strong performance by the company’s jet engine business. G.E. made no forecast for what its profit and revenue would look like this year, and its chief executive, Lawrence Culp, said that 2019 was “still very much a work in progress.” The company also said that it had reached a $1.5 billion settlement in an investigation of its role in the 2008 financial crisis, reassuring investors.More earnings news: Nintendo shares dropped more than 9.3 percent after it cut its full-year target for sales of its Switch video game console.Intel named its interim chief executive, Robert Swan, as its permanent leader, ending a seven-month search. (NYT)Symantec said its chief financial officer, Nicholas Noviello, planned to step down in the coming months to pursue other opportunities. (FT)John Brumby, a former Australian lawmaker, retired from the board of the Australian subsidiary of Huawei, the Chinese telecommunications giant. (FT)Deals• Blackstone and Apollo, two of the biggest private equity firms, recorded sharp declines in profit in the fourth quarter of 2018 after investments were hit by rocky markets. (FT)• Seeking to narrow its focus to consumer appliances, Electrolux plans to spin off a unit that supplies restaurants and hotels with food, beverages and equipment. (FT)• Blackstone said it would buy a controlling stake in Tallgrass Energy, a midstream energy company, for $3.3 billion. (Reuters)Tech• Jeff Bezos’s space venture, Blue Origin, reached a deal with Telesat of Canada to launch part of a satellite constellation intended to provide faster internet access. (Reuters)• New e-commerce rules in India caused widespread disruption on Amazon’s website there. (Reuters)• Elon Musk blamed layoffs at SpaceX on the company’s “two absolutely insane projects.” (CNBC)• Mark Zuckerberg added $6.2 billion to his net worth after Facebook posted revenue that beat Wall Street estimates, sending its shares soaring. (Bloomberg)Politics & Policy• President Trump said in an exclusive interview with the NYT that he would proceed with a border wall regardless of the result of talks with lawmakers and dismissed any suggestions of wrongdoing in the investigations that have ensnared his associates. (NYT)• The Republican-led Senate voted 68 to 23 to advance legislation that strongly opposes President Trump’s withdrawal of U.S. military forces from Syria and Afghanistan. (NYT)• President Trump signed an executive order intended to funnel more federal funding into infrastructure projects that employ American workers. (NYT)• Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the Senate majority leader, called Democratic legislation that aims to clear obstacles to voting and to make Election Day a federal holiday a “power grab.” (NYT)• Mr. Trump is said to be considering Herman Cain, the former pizza company executive and Republican presidential candidate, for a seat on the Federal Reserve Board. (Bloomberg)• Senator Elizabeth Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts, wants a 2 percent tax on household wealth exceeding $50 million, and a 3 percent tax for those with more than $1 billion. Here’s how the plan from the presidential hopeful would work. (Bloomberg)• Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont has his own plan to subject billionaires to a 77 percent estate tax. Here’s how much Jeff Bezos, Bill Gates and Warren Buffett would have to pay. (CNBC)Best of the Rest• Fears that supply chains will be severely disrupted in the event of a no-deal Brexit are leading to shortages of food and medicines in Britain. (Reuters)• Nearly a third of British companies could move their operations abroad because of Brexit, according to a recent survey. (BBC)• The timing of Italy’s recession could not be worse: Europe is at an economic standstill, raising anxieties that the world is on the verge of a significant slowdown. (NYT)• The Venezuelan company Citgo Petroleum, one of the largest refiners in the U.S., is considering bankruptcy after the Trump administration placed sanctions on Venezuela’s oil sector. (WSJ)• Chinese factories increasingly make goods for the country’s middle class, but when those consumers hold back, local workers can suffer. (NYT)• Lime, a scooter start-up based in San Francisco, is raising $400 million in its latest funding round, which values the company at $2 billion. (WSJ)• Palantir, a data-mining company, is handing out more bonuses and cheaper stock options after a succession of shareholder write-downs and political controversies tied to its co-founder, Peter Thiel. (Bloomberg)• Shell Oil reached a tentative agreement with the United Steelworkers union to increase pay by 11 percent over three years for 30,000 American workers. (Reuters)• Banks and smaller companies helped lift the stock market, a sign that investors are favoring sectors tied to the U.S. economy as trade tensions cloud global growth. (WSJ)• E.U. antitrust authorities have accused eight banks of colluding from 2007 to 2012 to manipulate the market for eurozone government bonds. (FT)• The cosmetics company e.l.f. Beauty imported 156 shipments of false eyelash kits with material sourced from North Korea, violating sanctions. The company will pay a settlement of nearly $1 million to the U.S. Office of Foreign Assets Control. (CNBC)• As China’s economy slows, gambling revenue in Macau fell 5 percent to $3.1 billion in January, the first fall since July 2016. (FT)• The polar vortex may cost American retailers and restaurants nearly $1 billion. (FT)• Commonwealth Bank of Australia, the country’s largest bank, may struggle if a powerful government inquiry intensifies regulatory pressure. (Reuters)• The curious case of why shares of PG&E rose after the utility company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. (WSJ)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Monday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday morning. Want this by email? Sign up here.In a sharp reversal of the stance it took just week ago, the Fed’s chairman, Jerome Powell, said yesterday it had “the luxury of patience” in deciding whether to raise rates again, writes the NYT’s Binyamin Appelbaum.The news: The Fed left its benchmark interest rate unchanged, a decision that was widely expected. What surprised markets was the indication that rates, which are in a range of 2.25 percent to 2.5 percent, would stay put for some time.The reaction: Mr. Powell’s comments soothed Wall Street, sending stocks higher, something President Trump cheered on Twitter. But the U-turn puzzled some investors and one warned of a slowing economy.More: In a separate statement, the Fed signaled that it might reduce “quantitative tightening,” the policy of selling its bond portfolio, which could be a challenge for Mr. Powell. Here’s a guide to what’s going on.____________________________Today’s DealBook Briefing was written by Andrew Ross Sorkin and Stephen Grocer in New York, and Tiffany Hsu and Gregory Schmidt in Paris.____________________________Advertisers pay for space expecting to reach potential spenders.Facebook, which says it has access to 2.32 billion people, seems like a prime avenue of exposure. But how many are spammers, scammers or flat-out fakes? Jack Nicas, who explored the social media network’s fluctuating, confusing account estimates, reckons even Facebook may not be sure.Yesterday, the company said in tiny lettering at the bottom of a slide about its earnings that it believes that there are 116 million fake accounts on its site, a 36 percent increase from 2017’s figure, which was itself 359 percent higher than the number disclosed in 2016. Its estimated number of duplicates rose 20 percent year over year, to 255 million.How many unauthorized accounts does Facebook take down each quarter? Enough to encompass as much of 35 percent of the network’s active users, data suggests. And some analysts suspect that the company’s user counts involve more guesswork than it lets on.But the money keeps coming in: Facebook emerged from a string of privacy scandals last year with a 30 percent boost in revenue and a 61 percent upswing in profit. Mark Zuckerberg, its chief executive, confirmed that Facebook plans to integrate the technical infrastructure of its WhatsApp, Instagram and Facebook Messenger apps by the end of the year or by early 2020.A bot scandal reaches a conclusion: The attorney general of New York reached a settlement with Devumi, a company that sold hundreds of millions of fake followers on Twitter and other platforms before going out of business last year.Is Apple’s Tim Cook Facebook’s privacy watchdog? After determining that the social network had violated the rules of an Apple developer program, Mr. Cook moved to block access. Our columnist Kevin Roose wonders whether Mr. Cook is becoming a technology regulator of last resort.The Arctic air mass sweeping across the Midwest and the Northeast brought a deep and sometimes deadly chill that caused traffic to snarl and the ground to crack.It is so cold that shops have closed, restaurants have shuttered and petting farm owners are struggling. Any lasting effect on commerce should be slight, however.It is so cold that, in Wisconsin, beer distributors stopped truck deliveries out of fear that their cargo would freeze solid. Amtrak canceled trains. Six in ten flights into and out of Chicago were canceled. Airlines have waived fees for changing flights. One towing company in Michigan received 40 calls for help in three hours.It is so cold that all of Cargill’s grain plants in the Midwest are closed, some shifts at a Tyson Foods pork plant in Iowa have been canceled and the hog slaughter has paused at a Hormel Foods facility in Minnesota.It is so cold that Disney on Ice has called off a performance in Chicago.It is so cold that General Motors has suspended production at several plants in Michigan because of an emergency appeal by the local utility, overwhelmed with heating demand.It is so cold that Republicans and Democrats are reaching across the aisle in Washington so they can huddle together for warmth. Just kidding.Facebook had company from other tech firms when reporting its earnings yesterday.Nokia, which now focuses on telecom equipment, warned that it would have a slow start to 2019, though it expects more business from companies building 5G mobile networks later in the year. Samsung, whose operating profit plunged 29 percent amid a decline in demand for memory chips, also said earnings this year might struggle. PayPal disappointed analysts, too, even as its revenue rose.But Qualcomm beat Wall Street expectations and issued a forecast that assuaged some concerns about a weak smartphone market in China. Other companies also had good news.Microsoft, often considered an indicator of the broader market, said that its commercial and consumer businesses were doing well, with revenue and profit increasing more than 10 percent from a year earlier. Its continued shift to cloud computing has placed it within striking distance of Amazon, which leads the field.Alibaba, China’s largest e-commerce business, said that its earnings growth sank last quarter and that its revenue, which rose 41 percent, had increased at its slowest pace since early 2016. Executives said that, while “the slowdown of macro might cause concerns in the market,” the company had minimal exposure to the trade war with Washington and e-commerce was healthier than the overall Chinese economy.Tesla, the electric carmaker, reported its second straight quarterly profit, but said that its $139 million in fourth quarter earnings was less than what it brought in during the third quarter. The company expects to deliver as many as 400,000 cars this year, up from 245,000 last year. And it said it had $3.7 billion in cash to carry it through a $920 million bond payment in March.Foxconn, the Taiwanese electronics behemoth, is rethinking its plan to build a $10 billion plant in Wisconsin with 13,000 jobs, a proposal that was hailed by President Trump. It’s now considering a shift toward research, underscoring the difficult economics of manufacturing in the United States, write the NYT’s Natalie Kitroeff, Patricia Cohen and Monica Davey:That turn runs counter to Mr. Trump’s vision for the project, which he had cited as a milestone in reversing the decline in factory jobs. The twist also brought new friction in Wisconsin, where the initiative has been politically fraught from the start because of its billions of dollars in tax subsidies.Foxconn said that it remained committed to creating 13,000 jobs, but economists questioned how such a large work force could be created if the plant’s focus was on other areas.A lack of clarity over the terms of Britain’s looming departure from the European Union has British businesses stockpiling products and delaying investments, writes the NYT’s Peter Goodman.The options: Parliament may yet approve Prime Minister Theresa May’s unpopular exit deal — she survived a critical vote on Tuesday that could have derailed it — especially if the alternative is a tumultuous no-deal departure.The reaction: Companies must plan for outcomes both wildly unknown and potentially damaging. They are making backup plans while having no idea how it will end.The cost: By one estimate, the British economy is already 2.3 percent smaller than it would have been if voters had backed E.U. membership in a 2016 referendum. The main culprit is uncertainty. Investment in the auto industry plunged last year. The cost of separation is apparent in finance, housing and other areas, too. Food retailers have warned of delays and shortages.More European news: Two engines of the eurozone economy, France and Germany, are cooling, a trend that threatens to deepen the pain across the Continent. Italy fell into a recession in the last quarter of 2018 after its economy shrank by 0.2 percent.Zach Kirkhorn will become Tesla’s chief financial officer after Deepak Ahuja retires. (Bloomberg)Deals • General Electric said it would merge its battery storage and electrical grid units into its wind turbine and hydropower business, and suitors are gathering for the jet leasing unit of its lending business, GE Capital. (Reuters, WSJ)• United Natural Foods accused Goldman Sachs of improperly extracting more than $200 million while advising it on its acquisition of the grocery chain Supervalu. (WSJ)• Elliott Management, an activist hedge fund, is making a push into full-blown takeovers. (WSJ)Tech • Apple is said to be planning a more powerful 3-D camera for iPhones, to help with augmented reality plans. (Bloomberg)• Lyft sued New York State over its minimum wage for drivers. (WSJ)Politics and policy• Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, approves of higher taxes for the rich, if the revenue is spent in a way that he considers wise. (Bloomberg)• President Trump called top intelligence officials who had contradicted him “naïve.” (NYT)• Starting in April, 5,340 more immigrants with an advanced degree from an American university may be selected for a coveted visa. (WSJ)• Lawmakers introduced legislation to limit Mr. Trump’s power to impose import tariffs. (Reuters)Best of the rest • Muslims have petitioned Nike to recall its Air Max 270 shoes, which are said to feature a design on the sole that resembles “Allah” in Arabic script. (Bloomberg)• Nearly 30 percent of company directors in Australia are women, up from 19.4 percent in 2015, leapfrogging the U.S., Britain and Canada in female representation in the boardroom. (FT)• More than $4 billion was paid out over the past decade to members of the Sackler family, which owns the drugmaker Purdue Pharma, even as sales of the opioid painkiller OxyContin waned, according to court documents. (WSJ)• Beer companies, casinos and other corporations are funneling record amounts into the U.S. wind and solar power industry, taking advantage of plunging costs, favorable tax breaks and a public relations boost. (WSJ)• Hedge funds are displaying levels of risk aversion that would be expected after a financial crisis. (Bloomberg)• Former U.S. intelligence operatives helped the United Arab Emirates spy on its enemies using technological techniques taught by the federal government. The secret operation was known as Project Raven. (Reuters)• It’s an election year in India. Gold consumption is likely to increase. (Bloomberg)• Sri Lanka’s constitutional crisis — in which the president and prime minister have faced off — has forced it to borrow heavily from China. (WSJ)• Phillips, a boutique auction house, sold $916.5 million of art and collectibles last year, the most in its 220-year history. A 1932 painting by Pablo Picasso fetched $57.8 million; a Rolex watch known as “The Unicorn” sold for $5.9 million. (Bloomberg)• A breakdown of the Super Bowl ad market, with a look at the beer company that spends the most. (WSJ)• Chinese consumers and their desire for handbags, Hennessy and other luxury products from LVMH helped add $4.3 billion to its chief executive Bernard Arnault’s fortune. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you on Friday.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to bizday@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byPor Albinson LinaresBuen día, bienvenido al boletín diario de The New York Times en Español. Si aún no estás suscrito, puedes darte de alta en este enlace.¿Tienes sugerencias? ¿Quieres hacernos llegar tu opinión? Escríbenos a esta dirección.• Entre Estados Unidos y México: mucho más que 3000 kilómetros de frontera. Los periodistas Azam Ahmed y Meridith Kohut están viajando a lo largo del borde que limita los dos países, donde hay rejas, puentes, desiertos y dos ríos que unen y separan a las comunidades de ambos lados. En su cuarta entrega, visitan el puente peatonal que conecta a Eagle Pass, Texas, con Piedras Negras, Coahuila; muchos ahora cruzan a nado de manera ilegal debido a un nuevo punto de control.“Así es como se solicita asilo ahora. No hay otra forma de cruzar”, dijo Óscar Antonio González, un hondureño de 21 años que se frotaba por el frío que sentía mientras observaba a sus compatriotas atravesar el río.• El colapso de una represa desata la indignación de los brasileños contra las mineras. La ruptura de una represa en la ciudad brasileña de Brumadinho dejó decenas de muertos y cientos de desaparecidos el viernes; para muchos brasileños, este nuevo caso evidencia la debilidad de las regulaciones a la industria minera. La situación preocupa a la opinión pública porque una inspección reciente clasificó a la estructura colapsada como “estable”.“Nos dijeron que si algo ocurría, una alarma se activaría para darnos tiempo de sacar todo”, dijo Dari Pereira, un operador de maquinaria de 39 años que escapó con su familia poco antes de que un río de fango arrasara con su casa. “Segundos después de que corrimos, vi a una ola llevarse todo, la casa, todo”.• El Chapo no testificará. Después de diez semanas y de la comparecencia de 56 testigos, la procuraduría en Nueva York dio por concluida la presentación de su caso en contra del narcotraficante mexicano, quien anunció a su vez que no va a declarar en defensa propia. El testimonio de todos los testigos, en su conjunto, fue arrollador.Los declarantes describieron a Joaquín Guzmán Loera como alguien que se dedicó durante más de treinta años a traficar toneladas de drogas de Centroamérica a México y de ahí hacia Estados Unidos y Canadá, y lo acusaron de haber sobornado a integrantes de casi todos los niveles de la policía, el ejército y la política de México, incluido un supuesto pago de 100 millones de dólares al expresidente Enrique Peña Nieto.“Maduro habla de diálogo y de negociación, pero luego persigue y reprime a los ciudadanos. Más que escuchar sus palabras hay que saber leer sus acciones. El chavismo usa el tiempo y desafía la violencia, como si deseara secretamente jugar con el límite de una guerra”.El escritor venezolano Alberto Barrera Tyszka analiza la encrucijada política de su país, que —por ahora— pareciera tener dos presidentes. Según Barrera, el chavismo funciona bajo una lógica militar y entiende el diálogo como otra acción bélica, por lo que el régimen de Nicolás Maduro usa el tiempo y el desgaste de las negociaciones a su favor.Chilenos perdidos en la Unión Soviética. Mientras el mundo se paralizaba por el Mundial de Rusia, el fotógrafo chileno Marcos Zegers afinó la vista un poco más. Leyó en las noticias sobre la historia de unos viejos compatriotas: 93 estudiantes que en 1973 viajaron becados a la Unión Soviética para aprender lo último en modernización del campo. Eran pioneros de un proyecto que terminó abruptamente con el golpe de Estado contra Salvador Allende. “Entonces dije: ‘Me voy a Rusia, pase lo que pase porque esta historia no tiene imágenes y alguien se las tiene que poner’”, cuenta el fotógrafo, quien solo se llevó sus equipos, una bolsa de dormir y se largó hasta cerca de la frontera con Ucrania para documentar la vida de estos hombres. Las imágenes de su proyecto pueden verse en este trabajo.• Afganistán, un paso más cerca de la paz [en inglés]. Representantes de Estados Unidos y de los talibanes aceptaron el borrador de un acuerdo de paz, el mayor paso hacia el fin de esa guerra que ya lleva diecisiete años. Los insurgentes garantizarían que los terroristas nunca utilizarán el territorio afgano, lo que podría lograr la retirada total de las tropas estadounidenses a cambio de otras concesiones, según informó el lunes Zalmay Khalilzad, jefe negociador de Estados Unidos.“Los talibanes se han comprometido a hacer lo que sea necesario para evitar que Afganistán se convierta en una plataforma para grupos o individuos terroristas internacionales”, afirmó Khalilzad. Si necesitas ponerte al día con la situación de Afganistán, aquí repasamos algunos elementos importantes de ese conflicto bélico.• El proceso de enmienda del brexit podría cambiar el futuro del Reino Unido. Los legisladores británicos votarán hoy una serie de cambios en las propuestas de la primera ministra Theresa May para que el país se retire de la Unión Europea. Quienes no conocen la política británica podrían pensar que este es un proceso engorroso y antiguo y seguramente no entienden por qué los legisladores tardaron tanto en comenzar a discutir otras ideas. Aquí ofrecemos una guía [en inglés] para el proceso de enmienda y explicamos las razones que lo convierten en un momento crítico para el brexit.• El otro lado del #MeToo: disminuyen las oportunidades de orientación para las mujeres. Con el argumento de que temen transgredir límites ante las crecientes denuncias de acoso sexual, muchos gerentes de grandes empresas han declinado ser mentores de empleadas y colegas, lo que restringe las posibilidades de que ellas alcancen puestos más altos.“Si permitimos que esto pase, va a hacer que retrocedamos décadas”, afirmó Pat Milligan, quien dirige investigaciones sobre liderazgo. “Las mujeres deben ser respaldadas por los líderes y la mayoría de los líderes siguen siendo hombres”. El Foro Económico Mundial publicó recientemente un informe que concluye que se necesitarían 202 años para que se logre la igualdad de género empresarial.• La economía global no está en crisis, pero no supera sus vulnerabilidades [en inglés]. A pesar de que la economía mundial dio algunas señales de vitalidad durante gran parte del año pasado, los problemas que la han aquejado desde hace una década siguen allí; entre ellos, el envejecimiento de la mano de obra en muchas de las economías más importantes, un crecimiento muy bajo en la productividad y un exceso en la capacidad industrial y el ahorro global, además de una escasez de demanda en todo el mundo.• Pareciera que el plan de Facebook para integrar sus servicios de mensajería de WhatsApp, Instagram y Facebook Messenger busca afirmar el control en las extensas divisiones de la empresa, que se ha visto afectada por escándalos. Con la unión de la infraestructura de las aplicaciones, Mark Zuckerberg, director ejecutivo de la red social, quiere mantener a los miles de millones de usuarios inmersos en su ecosistema. La iniciativa ha provocado conflictos internos y genera dudas sobre la privacidad de los datos debido a la manera en que la información de los usuarios podría ser compartida entre las diversas plataformas.• ¿Qué pasa con Apple? La empresa revelará más sobre sus ganancias y pronósticos este martes, unas semanas después de reducir sus expectativas de ingresos por primera vez en dieciséis años. Eso también ofrecerá una visión del debilitamiento de la economía en China, que afecta tanto al mercado como a los centros de fabricación. Apple, al igual que muchas empresas, ha descubierto que ningún país puede igualar la combinación de habilidades, infraestructura y costos de China. En este trabajo [en inglés] presentamos un caso de estudio basado en el uso de un tornillo pequeño y sus consecuencias en la fabricación de computadoras.El fin de semana publicamos una columna de Farhad Manjoo en la que formula diversas razones para que los periodistas hagan un uso crítico y racionen su presencia en Twitter. “Twitter no solo arruina la imagen de los medios. También sesga nuestro periodismo”, dice Manjoo. “Todos los elementos de la interfaz de Twitter fomentan una mentalidad que se opone a la indagación periodística: favorece la forma por encima del contenido y los argumentos baratos por encima del debate razonado”.Ese artículo causó muchas reacciones entre nuestros lectores, como fue el caso de Raúl Venegas Porras, quien escribió en Facebook que el problema no son las redes sociales, sino “las personas con mucha afectación emocional y mental que se expresan en ellas”. En la misma red social, Jaas Adino Castillo elogió a Twitter como una plataforma de denuncia que “visibiliza y logra hacer diferentes tipos de control”.En Twitter, el periodista Pedro García Otero opinó que el artículo refleja un extremo y explica que esa red social obliga a los reporteros a volver a los principios básicos del oficio que sintetizó en la frase ""andar pilas y a saber diferenciar la paja del trigo”. En la misma plataforma, Adriana García expresó: “No, al periodismo lo están arruinando los malos periodistas”.Gracias por leernos. Mañana no te pierdas las mejores noticias científicas y una selección de artículos especiales del Times.También puedes compartir este boletín con tus amigos, familiares, seres queridos y no tan queridos. Se pueden registrar en este enlace.Advertisement"
" The high-end watch market is a strong investment vehicle for wealthy people.Details of a 1966 Rolex Submariner, reference 5513, featuring a gilt, meters-first dial; a “long 5” bezel; a so-called Bart Simpson crown logo; and plenty of patina. Listed for sale at $60,000.CreditCreditGreyson Korhonen/HodinkeeSupported byBy Alex WilliamsAs tattooed rockers, tech bros and Instagram influencers pile into the tweedy world of watch collecting, prices for sought-after classics from brands like Rolex, Omega and Patek Philippe are shooting up. In some cases, they have doubled in just a couple of years.These next-generation collectors see old timepieces not just as a subtly stylish way to dress up a T-shirt and jeans, but also as a hot new asset in their investment portfolios. In a market where stocks, bonds and real estate seem at an unsteady peak, do vintage watches present a Bitcoin-in-2017-like growth opportunity? Or are they in a Bitcoin-in-2017-like bubble? Time — elegantly monitored — will tell. Even though his investment in watches has doubled in value in just 18 months, Peter Goodwin, a private investor in Charlottesville, Va., who also collects watches, said he is concerned about frothiness in the vintage market.“It’s much like momentum investing in stocks,” he said. “People see the rise in Facebook shares, they see Mark Zuckerberg, and they want to ride it up. It is the same with the trendy watches we read about in the auctions — the Paul Newman Rolex, the Omega Speedmasters, some Submariners. You see them rising and you want to jump on.”“The question,” Mr. Goodwin said, “is when does it stop?”That’s a risk that newcomer watch geeks like Shahien Hendizadeh, a recent business school graduate in Los Angeles, are willing to take.“Buying a good vintage Rolex is just like purchasing stock in a company like Nestlé or Google,” Mr. Hendizadeh, 25, said. “It is the quintessential blue chip.”After taking a face-plant on a long-shot $2,000 investment in American Apparel stock, just months before the company declared bankruptcy, he bought a 1982 Rolex Submariner for $13,000. It has appreciated perhaps $10,000 in two years, he said.And in the event of an economic downturn, fine watches may turn out to represent a safe-haven asset, like metals or gems, for investors looking to diversify their portfolios. Or they may just be another of-the-moment asset that 1 percenters, flush with cash, have inflated to unsustainable proportions. Watch collectors hide in plain sight. John Mayer’s watch collection is nearly as famous as his guitar work. His bank vault contains a vast array of collectibles, including sapphire-encrusted gold Rolexes and Luftwaffe watches from World War II, that he has said is valued in the “tens of millions.”Silicon Valley heavyweights like Kevin Rose, the Digg founder, and Matt Jacobson, Facebook’s employee No. 8, have museum-worthy Rolexes and Patek Philippes, helping to establish a head-turning timepiece as a tech-world style flourish to rival the hoodie.Ellen DeGeneres wore a holy-grail Paul Newman-model Rolex Daytona from the 1960s, now worth perhaps $250,000, while bantering with Jerry Seinfeld in an episode of “Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee” last year. (Adam Levine and Ed Sheeran have been spotted wearing Paul Newmans as well. One also made a cameo on the wrist of Pierre Png’s character in “Crazy Rich Asians.”)In professional sports, high-end timepieces have long seemed as indispensable as a shoe contract for stars with seven- and eight-figure incomes. Top athletes including Rafael Nadal, Dwyane Wade and LeBron James have served as celebrity ambassadors for brands like Richard Mille, Hublot and Audemars Piguet. Star players who have been traded have been known to trade a Rolex to a player on their new team to secure their old jersey number. And in recent years, several have morphed into certifiable watch snobs. Howie Kendrick of the Washington Nationals, for example, counts understated heirlooms, like a 1959 LeCoultre Deep Sea Alarm and a 1960s Breitling Superocean, as key elements of his off-field uniform.If you’re still 1 percent-ish but would prefer to dabble, there’s good news. The Watch Fund, run by Dominic Khoo, a shareholder and watch specialist with the auction company Antiquorum, offers people a chance to invest in rare and limited-edition watches at prices that can be 50 percent or more below retail. Those who have bought in have seen at least double-digit returns since the fund’s inception six years ago, Mr. Khoo said.Star power and funds like Mr. Khoo’s add credence to the idea that fine watches are a soybean or a copper, another investable commodity. But does that make them a good investment?What even makes a watch valuable? Consider the bezel insert from a 1957 Rolex Submariner. A bezel insert is the featherweight aluminum disk with numbers on it that surrounds the dial of a diver’s watch.On Submariners made in the third quarter of 1957, the bezel insert was made with an unusual red triangle at 12 o’clock and slightly different typography on the numerals. Because it is rare, that insert is so sought after by collectors that it can fetch more than $30,000 these days, said Eric Wind, a dealer of fine vintage watches in Florida, up from maybe $10,000 just a few years ago.None of this necessarily makes sense. It’s not like a vintage watch is better than a new one. In fact, it’s worse in almost every way.A new Rolex Submariner, for example, is a modern update of a decades-old classic that seems to be every budding watch geek’s first serious timepiece. The new Sub is a marvel of mechanical engineering, with a high-tech ceramic bezel that is virtually guaranteed not to fade, a solid-steel bracelet as rugged as a tank tread, and a crystal made of sapphire that is all but scratch-proof. It’s a watch that feels indestructible enough for a pleasure dive in the Mariana Trench.No one would ever say that about its predecessor, those midcentury Submariners made famous by Sean Connery’s James Bond, which are shooting up in value despite the fact that they feature an acrylic (that is, plastic) crystal prone to scratches and cracks, a hollow-steel bracelet that eventually might stretch like an accordion, and a painted dial that could fade from the original black to an espresso brown (known to collectors as a “tropical” dial).Which is, naturally, why old watches are considered cool: They have patina, provenance, soul. And for a generation of men (and yes, vintage watches seem to be an obsession largely for men, with apologies to Ellen) who value the analog-chic of antique mechanical watches, just like vinyl records and selvage jeans, that is key.“Vintage watches should show off their age,” said Nelson Murray, a 31-year-old photographer and budding collector in San Francisco. Vintage sport watches, like his Rolex GMT-Master, a classic pilot’s watch from 1980, “evoke a sense of adventure and a kind of dare to add more dings and scratches to them as evidence of a life lived.”Prices for some Rolex GMT-Master models — in the proper condition, with original parts — have spiked to perhaps $16,000, up from $8,000 just two or three years ago, said Paul Altieri of Bob’s Watches, a prominent retailer in Newport Beach, Calif. (It routinely shows off sumptuous wrist shots of old classics for its Instagram followers.)A few years ago, Matt Hranek, a watch-loving photographer who recently founded a men’s style magazine called Wm Brown, flipped a 1960s Omega Speedmaster (the same model worn by the astronaut Ed White on the first American spacewalk) for five times what he paid for it, he said. That score helped him persuade his wife that a portfolio of vintage watches could serve as an alternate 401(k) for the family.“I convinced her — I think — that it was much more practical to invest regularly in watches that I know about rather than the stock market that I know absolutely nothing about,” Mr. Hranek, 51, said.Benjamin Clymer, the founder of the watch site Hodinkee, which has evolved from a one-man watch blog to a market-moving editorial and e-commerce site selling new and vintage watches, has been practicing a form of horological arbitrage with his collection for years.In 2012, for example, he bought a Patek Philippe Nautilus, a triumph of 1970s mod design that conjures images of Concorde flights and fondue parties, for $18,000. That watch is worth at least $75,000 today, Mr. Clymer, 36, said. That’s not his only home run as a watch investor.“I have a distinct memory of a friend who is now one of the great vintage dealers in the world calling me crazy for spending $30,000 for an early 1950s Omega Speedmaster,” he said. “The same watch today would be well north of $100,000.”With wrist shots flourishing on Instagram and watch sites like Hodinkee, Worn & Wound and Monochrome spreading arcane watch knowledge to the masses, collector demand is spreading beyond behemoth brands like Rolex and Omega to lesser-known makers like Universal Genève. One particularly coveted version of that venerable Swiss maker’s Compax chronograph famously graced the wrist of Nina Rindt, the fashionable wife of the 1970s Formula One racer Jochen Rindt. It began trading as high as $45,000 recently, up from maybe $2,800 in 2011, although the market has cooled of late, Mr. Wind said; the same model might trade for $20,000 to $30,000, he added. But no watch has exploded in value like the Paul Newman Daytona. It is an auto racer’s chronograph that once was considered something of an afterthought in the watch world. Joanne Woodward accidentally made it iconic when she bought one for Mr. Newman, her gear-head husband, in the late 1960s for about $250.Whether she noticed it or not, the specific model she selected for Mr. Newman, who could often be found circling the track when he was not making movies, was rare, featuring distinctive Art Deco-inflected numerals on its three sub-dials denoting seconds, minutes and hours. This only appeared on perhaps one in 20 Daytonas from the late 1960s and early 1970s.Over the years, Mr. Newman’s stature as a style icon grew, and so did the mythology — and value — of the Rolex he flashed on magazine covers. In a 2014 post, Hodinkee scoured old auction catalogs featuring Paul Newman sales and found estimates as low as $9,257 in 1992, and as low (yes) as $66,000 in 2008.Those were the days. After Paul Newman’s own Paul Newman attracted worldwide headlines by selling at auction for $17.8 million after a mere 12 minutes of bidding in 2017, every Paul Newman suddenly seems to be trading like a Picasso. A coveted version known as an Oyster Mk 1 “panda” went for more than $750,000 at a Phillips auction in Geneva this past spring, a figure that shocked Mr. Clymer, who once owned that very watch. “The Oysters are something really special, and go well beyond ticking the box for a rich guy to prove he’s cool,” Mr. Clymer said. “I bought this watch in the twos, sold it in the threes, and I thought I was the smartest man in the room. How could a steel Daytona break $400,000?”Not every old watch has value. Anyone who scoops up a cheap boxful of half-working Bulovas from the 1950s at a flea market is likely to end up with a cheap boxful of half-working Bulovas from the 1950s. Vintage watch collecting can prove a minefield for newbie collectors. Even with blue-chip models, seemingly imperceptible differences can add or detract thousands of dollars in value. A Rolex Submariner from the 1960s with an original bezel insert featuring a so-called long 5 is worth thousands more than one with a replacement insert with a shorter, more contemporary 5. Buyers need to figure out if a watch has been polished over the years — actually considered a bad thing, since polishing can wear down the crisp edges of its case, Mr. Wind said. And they need to watch out for unscrupulous dealers peddling so-called Frankenwatches, which contain non-original parts that can torpedo the value. Besides, watch collecting can be similar to art collecting in that dealers tend to reserve the most coveted pieces for insiders and heavyweight collectors, rarely making them available to the general public. And then there are the fickle market tastes that any sort of collector must try to anticipate. Right now, the arrow is pointing up on best-of-breed sport watches with steel bracelets, like the Nautilus, the Submariner and GMT, the early Speedmasters, the Audemars Piguet Royal Oak and certain vintage Tudors and Heuers, Mr. Clymer said. There’s no telling how the demand for five- and six-figure timepieces will hold up should, say, a credit implosion in China, or a splintering of the eurozone, produce a sequel to the 2008 financial crisis, or should Democratic Socialists sweep to power in Washington on promises of a 70 percent tax rate on the target demographic for museum-worthy watches. Already, some sure things, like certain Daytonas, are looking like slightly less than a sure thing. “The market for Daytona just got a little silly for awhile,” Mr. Clymer said. “We saw references worth $20,000, $25,000 in 2011 to 2015 all of a sudden worth $50,000, then all of a sudden worth $80,000. And now those same references are worth $65,000. That’s still significantly higher than they were, but they’ve come down from the stratosphere.”During the bear market of 2008 to 2009, too, prices for some high-flying vintage models, including Paul Newmans, dipped by 30 to 40 percent, said Matthew Bain, a dealer of fine watches in Miami Beach. But, like stocks, they bounced back to new highs. The rebound may seem intoxicating. But people who think of their watch collection as an alternative to an E-Trade account may be in for a rude surprise when they discover that watches often come with sizable dealer fees, not to mention substantial outlays for insurance, secure storage and other hidden costs, Mr. Khoo said. “Investors are not collectors, and collectors are not investors,” Mr. Khoo said. His Watch Fund has a database of “more than 9,000 watch collectors worldwide,” he said, and “I have never met someone who bought hundreds of watches that he liked, and sold 100 percent of them for a net absolute gain.”In other words, newcomers to the watch world may want to heed the warning attached to brokerage advertisements on television: Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Or, they may just want to buy whatever looks cool and leave it at that. Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byGood Thursday. Want this by email? Sign up here.American and Chinese officials have reportedly begun to hash out documents that could form the basis of a trade deal, but there are growing concerns that leaders of both nations are softening on key demands. More on the progress from Bloomberg, citing an unidentified source:• Several memorandums of understanding “would cover areas including agriculture, non-tariff barriers, services, technology transfer and intellectual property, said the person.”• “The enforcement mechanism remains unclear, but would likely be a threat that tariffs would be reimposed if conditions aren’t met, the person said.”• “No breakthrough is expected during this week’s talks,” though an extension to a March 1 deadline is still a possibility.But there’s a new fear surrounding the deal. According to Lingling Wei and Bob Davis of the WSJ, there are “growing concerns on the home front” in both America and China that their leaders — and President Trump in particular — are “going to cave in to the other side”:• Some officials reportedly believe Mr. Trump is “tiring of the trade dispute and is poised to cut a deal that won’t lead to fundamental changes by China.”• “American Enterprise Institute China scholar Derek Scissors said that U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer, a China hawk, holds significant leverage over Mr. Trump to keep to a hard line — including, potentially, the threat of resigning if the deal falls short.”More trade news: Mr. Trump reportedly continues to consider E.U. car tariffs — levies that Volkswagen says could cost it billions of euros per year. And is the clothes maker American Giant, which makes all its products in the U.S., a model for Mr. Trump’s ambitions?Hedge funds and investment banks think they’ve found a big new moneymaker, according to Matt Goldstein and Jim Tankersley of the NYT: so-called opportunity funds, part of President Trump’s tax package to steer money to poor areas by offering large tax breaks.• “More than 80 of the funds have sprung up since January 2018, even though the Trump administration has not finalized regulations governing them.”• The pitch to potential investors: outsize returns while fighting poverty.• The provision that created opportunity funds “lowers capital gains taxes — potentially dramatically — for investors who finance projects in about 8,700 so-called opportunity zones spread across the 50 states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.”• The financial benefit? “An investor who keeps money in such a fund for 10 years is able to exclude 15 percent of the original capital gain from taxation. And — potentially much more lucratively — the investor would not owe taxes on any gains that accrued if the investment increased in value in that time.”• “Skeptics worry that the funds will mostly target real estate and other projects that probably would have attracted investment even without the tax break, and may not deliver the returns being dangled.”The British prime minister was in Brussels yesterday to press for changes that could save her Brexit deal. She may finally be making some headway, though she still needs to convince lawmakers of any changes to her plan.She made her case to the E.U. In discussions with the European Commission’s president, Jean-Claude Juncker, she pressed for “legally binding changes” to her existing deal that she hopes will make it palatable to British lawmakers. Britain’s attorney general, Geoffrey Cox, and Brexit secretary, Steve Barclay, are expected to propose wordings for those legal tweaks today.Some progress may have been made. “A Brexit agreement is already being hammered out in Brussels, according to Spain’s foreign minister, as the bloc seeks reassuring language that can convince British members of Parliament to back the deal,” Bloomberg explains.But the E.U. may demand that any changes are first approved in Britain. The E.U. “doesn’t want to call leaders for a summit to sign off on changes that are then rejected by the U.K. Parliament,” Bloomberg reports, adding that “once there’s an agreement, it should be tested in Parliament, and only after that will leaders be asked to sign off on it at a summit.” And it is far from clear that lawmakers would approve.More Brexit news: Nine more Conservative party lawmakers have reportedly said that they could resign from the party in the event of a no-deal Brexit. The credit agency Fitch may downgrade Britain’s double-A rating over concerns about Brexit. The White House has spent the last year trying to convince Europe that the Chinese telecommunications giant Huawei is a national security threat and shouldn’t be given any role in developing new wireless networks. So far, that plan doesn’t appear to be working.British officials don’t seem to agree with the White House. “Ciaran Martin, who leads Britain’s National Cyber Security Center, expressed confidence at a conference in Brussels that any security risks Huawei posed could be managed,” Adam Satariano of the NYT reports.Nor do those in Germany. The news follows a WSJ report yesterday that said “the German government is leaning toward letting Huawei Technologies Co. participate in building the nation’s high-speed internet infrastructure.”“If Britain does not ban Huawei, it would be a defeat for the White House,” Mr. Satariano writes. “Because Britain belongs to the Five Eyes intelligence-sharing alliance with the United States, whatever it decides on Huawei is likely to affect how other countries treat the company.”The German lender suffered one of its biggest-ever trading losses from a decade-long wager on a municipal-bond investment that spiraled out of control, the WSJ reports, citing unnamed sources.• The bank bought $7.8 billion worth of municipal bonds in 2007, later covered with insurance purchased from Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway.• The WSJ says Deutsche Bank “resisted for years reducing the value of those bonds and related derivatives on its books to a level that markets suggested they were worth,” and dismissed concerns from auditors.• “Internally, the bank acknowledged losses on the trade only incrementally. After it finally liquidated the position nine years after buying the bonds, bank executives debated whether to restate past financial results, but never did so.”• Deutsche Bank finally liquidated the position in the summer of 2016, after its C.E.O. at the time, John Cryan, demanded the trade be wound down.• “The prolonged struggle over how to handle the investment sheds light on cultural and financial challenges inside one of Europe’s biggest banks that have hampered its ability to compete with stronger U.S. rivals.”More Deutsche Bank news: Executives were reportedly so worried about the Trump Organization defaulting on $340 million in loans during the Trump presidency that they discussed extending repayment dates until 2025.The Swiss bank was hit by one of France’s biggest-ever financial penalties yesterday for helping wealthy French clients hide money from the authorities.The judgment was seven years in the making. French authorities began investigating after whistle-blowers tipped them off. According to the NYT, prosecutors said that UBS bankers in France eager for big bonuses “had alerted their counterparts in Switzerland to potential ‘big potatoes’ ” — French citizens with assets of at least €500,000, or about $560,000.Bankers used “James Bond” methods to hide their work. They “followed a UBS ‘security governance manual’ that included instructions for using encrypted computers, using business cards without the bank’s logo and switching hotels frequently,” according to the NYT.UBS will appeal. The firm said that the case was “based on the unfounded allegations of former employees,” and its C.E.O. derided the verdict as “superficial” and “astounding.”Major companies including Nestlé and Epic Games said yesterday that they had stopped buying ads on Google’s video platform. The reason, the NYT reports: Pedophiles were swarming the comment sections of children’s videos.The companies acted after a user posted a video that pointed out that innocent videos of youngsters were being overrun with suggestive comments aimed at the children.The video’s creator, Matt Watson, accused YouTube of “facilitating the sexual exploitation” of children. He added that the site’s recommendation system guided predators to other videos featuring minors.A Google spokeswoman said the company had taken action by deleting accounts and offensive comments. “Any content — including comments — that endangers minors is abhorrent and we have clear policies prohibiting this on YouTube,” she said.At this point, the blood-testing company is over. But Nick Bilton of Vanity Fair writes that in its final months, Theranos’s founder, Elizabeth Holmes, tried to abandon a high-spending lifestyle and attempted to convince employees that everything was O.K.:• “Holmes had a hard time weaning herself off certain luxuries. She still had her own personal security detail, drivers, personal assistants and a personal publicist who was on retainer for $25,000 a month.”• “By late 2017, however, Holmes had begun to slightly rein in the spending.” She agreed to give up her private-jet travel, and moved the company’s premises from Palo Alto to Newark, to premises that former employees called “crummy.”• “Yet through all of this, former employees of the company have told me, Holmes had a bizarre way of acting like nothing was wrong. Even more peculiarly, she appeared happy. ‘The company is falling apart, there are countless indictments piling up, employees are leaving in droves, and Elizabeth is just weirdly chipper,’ a former senior executive told me.”Those in the upper echelon are hoarding money and privilege to a degree not seen in decades. But that doesn’t make them happy at work, Charles Duhigg writes in the NYT:• “A surprising portion of Americans are professionally miserable right now. In the mid-1980s, roughly 61 percent of workers told pollsters they were satisfied with their jobs. Since then, that number has declined substantially, hovering around half, according to data collected by the Conference Board, a nonprofit research organization.”• “Even among professionals given to lofty self-images, like those in medicine and law, other studies have noted a rise in discontent.”• “Why? Based on my own conversations with classmates and the research I began reviewing, the answer comes down to oppressive hours, political infighting, increased competition sparked by globalization, an ‘always-on culture’ bred by the internet — but also something that’s hard for these professionals to put their finger on, an underlying sense that their work isn’t worth the grueling effort they’re putting into it.”Dane Butswinkas is stepping down as Tesla’s general counsel, only two months after joining the carmaker from the law firm Williams & Connolly.Keith Rabois, the veteran investor, is leaving Khosla Ventures for Founders Fund, the venture capital firm run by his longtime friend Peter Thiel.Robin Phillips, a co-head of HSBC’s global banking division, will reportedly step down this summer.Serena Williams joined the board of Poshmark, an online retailer.Deals• Lyft plans to begin its I.P.O. roadshow on March 18, paving the way to begin trading publicly on the Nasdaq stock market by early April. (NYT)• The activist hedge fund Starboard Value nominated five directors to Bristol-Myers Squibb’s board, a potential attempt to derail the drugmaker’s acquisition of Celgene. (Bloomberg)• With Sainsbury and other major British retailers out as buyers for Walmart’s Asda unit, will a private equity firm step in? (Bloomberg)• The C.E.O. of Kraft Heinz says that food company valuations have become “more attractive” recently, suggesting he may try to strike deals. (FT)Politics and policy• The Justice Department reportedly could announce that Robert Mueller has completed his Russia investigation as soon as next week. (CNN)• Coal companies hired Bill Wehrum’s law firm to fight Obama-era environmental rules — then Mr. Wehrum joined President Trump’s Environmental Protection Agency. (Politico)• House Democrats plan to introduce a bill blocking President Trump’s emergency declaration for a border wall by tomorrow. (Politico)• A disinformation campaign aimed at Democratic presidential candidates like Senators Kamala Harris and Bernie Sanders is underway. Foreign state actors appear to be involved. (Politico)Tech• Apple is reportedly working on a way for developers to create one app that works on iPhones, iPads and Macs. (Bloomberg)• Samsung thinks it has seen the future of smartphones — and it’s a folding device that will cost almost $2,000. (NYT)• Digital ad spending in the U.S. is expected to surpass nondigital this year. (Axios)• Mark Zuckerberg says that an ad-free Facebook isn’t quite as straightforward as it sounds. (Recode)Best of the rest• Court documents revealed that the health care joint venture of Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway and JPMorgan Chase plans to redesign health insurance, among other things. (WSJ)• The Fed paused interest rate rises because “the global economic outlook became less certain and financial markets failed to appreciate the Fed’s willingness to shift if the economy weakened.” (NYT)• The Justice Department and S.E.C. are investigating Johnson & Johnson over concerns about possible asbestos contamination of its popular baby powder. (NYT)• The S.E.C. is now investigating Danske Bank over its money-laundering scandal. (Bloomberg)Thanks for reading! We’ll see you tomorrow.We’d love your feedback. Please email thoughts and suggestions to business@nytimes.com.Advertisement"
" OnlyFans has put X-rated entertainment in the hands of its entertainers. Call it the paywall of porn.Dannii Harwood CreditCreditMolly Matalon for The New York TimesSupported byBy Jacob BernsteinEvery day, hundreds of men pay Dannii Harwood to enact their sexual fantasies and boost their self-esteem. Sometimes her clothes come off. Sometimes she dresses up as a nurse or a dominatrix. If a guy is a regular customer, she likely knows his birthday, the names of his children and his pets — even when to call after a surgical procedure.He may pay her to help him achieve an orgasm, though she is not a prostitute. He may purchase erotic videos from her, though she is not a porn star.Ms. Harwood is one of the top earners on OnlyFans, where subscribers — mostly male; straight, gay and beyond — pay models and social media influencers a fee, generally $5 to $20 a month, to view a feed of imagery too racy for Instagram. With that access, subscribers can also direct message and “tip” to get pictures or videos created on demand, according to their sexual tastes.Models who join the site often presume that their subscribers will increase in number if they post more often and make the content more explicit. The “more often” part is true. The “more explicit” part is not.At a time when anyone with a smartphone or small studio can become his or her own pornographer, and content is often free, the hottest site in the adult entertainment industry is dominated by providers who show fewer sex acts and charge increasing fees depending on how creative the requests get. That’s the first paradox at the center of the OnlyFans phenomenon.The most popular OnlyFans personality is Jem Wolfie, of Perth, Australia.She can’t help but laugh when people call her a “fitness model.” As she noted in an interview, “70 percent of my fans are men.” So the bulk of them aren’t looking for exercise tips, although she may provide them, for an added fee (along with healthy recipes — she used to be a chef).According to OnlyFans, she has 10,000 subscribers who pay $10 a month for access to a feed in which she shows off her Kardashianesque proportions, squatting in really tight leggings and squeezing her breasts together, strategically covering her nipples. “I’m a thick girl,” she said matter-of-factly.It doesn’t go much further than that.“Basically, OnlyFans is online go-go dancing,” said Matthew Camp, a 34-year-old model on the men’s side who broke into the business a decade ago writhing on platforms around downtown Manhattan for the party promoter Susanne Bartsch.If the four main quadrants of the gay approval matrix were daddy, twink, bear and boy next door, he seemed to sit smack in the center, not falling neatly into any of those categories but appealing to the potential audiences for each.With a G-string and a strobe light, he could make as much as $1,000 on a good night. Porn studios like Lucas Entertainment began calling.Mr. Camp was intrigued. “Having sex for money is appealing,” he said. But $1,000 seemed low for something that would sit on the internet and brand him for life as a porn star.So he turned them down and instead used a PG-13 feed on Instagram to build a following of more than half a million. About a year ago, as the club scene continued its slow death, he moved to Hudson, N.Y., and signed up for OnlyFans.Weeks often went by without him posting a single picture or video. He didn’t show a full penetrative sex clip for the first nine months, yet he still regularly took home more than $10,000 a month.“Tumblr was filled with the most extreme sexual experiences you could see,” he said. “And I think a lot of people were turned off by that. It’s not what they’re looking for. They want more intimate experiences. They want a boyfriend experience. They want to fantasize about someone that they want to have sex with and not feel disgusted by it.”From the late 1990s to the early 2000s, dreamers in the porn industry, centered in the San Fernando Valley of California, openly described their multi-million-dollar futures in the business. There was actually a history of this happening, at least for a small number of models signed to lucrative long-term contracts with studios like Vivid and Wicked.They could make north of $5,000 a scene and shoot a couple of those each week, according to Brian Gross, a well-known industry publicist. That income could be supplemented with five-figure sums doing nightclub appearances around the country on the weekends, he said.Jenna Jameson — the Julia Roberts of straight porn — even parlayed her notoriety into a memoir released by HarperCollins, “How to Make Love Like a Porn Star: A Cautionary Tale,” which was a New York Times best seller. The title turned out to be eerily prescient. As its publisher, Judith Regan, pointed out: “Porn went the way of all media.” It turns out, everyone could do it. Except that because porn was an industry of people already living on the margins of society, the effects for the performers were in many ways worse.The primary culprits were so-called tube sites: YouTube-like platforms that aggregated stolen pornographic content, disseminated it for free and sucked up revenue from banner and video ads. Since porn studios did not have the capital or political connections to sue their most threatening adversaries out of business (as the record industry did), rates for scene work dropped. Fewer scenes were shot overall. Eventually, the studios began selling themselves to the tube sites at fire-sale prices.It was as if the entire music business had been subsumed by Napster.By 2015, a handful of companies were able to exert monopolistic control over the industry. MindGeek is the biggest player of all. The crown jewel of its empire is Pornhub (perhaps the most popular tube site in the world), which is supplied with content from numerous in-house production companies of the straight (Brazzers.com, Reality Kings) and gay varieties (SeanCody, Men.com).MindGeek knows all about porn habits by doing comprehensive data analysis. It has shown less of an affinity for the product or the people who appear in it.The MindGeek website makes no reference to the fact that the overwhelming majority of its customers are consumers of hard-core pornography. The technocrats who built the company got rich. Many of the performers who helped enable their success became prostitutes, offering their services on websites like RentMen.com and The Erotic Review when scene work ceased to be a viable way to make a living. It’s a fitting but unfortunate parable in an era of rampant economic inequality.“If you have a known name, it’s much easier to market your services,” said Dirk Caber, a porn star who has filmed close to 40 scenes for MindGeek’s most popular gay site, Men.com, since 2013. Most of his income comes from his work as an escort, because this scene work pays so little.“The whole industry did a 180,” Mr. Gross said. “When I started, there were actually websites that would out famous porn stars if they escorted, because it was shocking, for lack of a better word. Now, all talent is looked at as if they are escorts, and those who aren’t have to come out and say so.”One alternative to escorting is webcamming. In England, there are even TV stations, like Playboy and Babestation, on which models talk live with thousands of customers and earn several hundred dollars a day. That’s what Ms. Harwood did before OnlyFans came along.She grew up in Wales, with a mother who stocked supermarket shelves and a father who was a factory worker. It was a “typical working-class” household, she said recently, while on a vacation in New York that included a trip to the 9/11 memorial and the taking of many hotel room selfies. As a little girl, Ms. Harwood was a relentless attention seeker, the sort who appeared in school plays, competed in beauty pageants and studied dance. She also had reservoirs of empathy that would serve her well later in life.She could spot pain in others and find ways to make them feel better. She also was capable of identifying her limitations and finding ways to chart new paths for herself. “I was raised well,” she said. She studied dance at Laine Theatre Arts, a prestigious drama and dance college near London. Then, “I went to audition after audition,” she said. “Eventually, I realized I wasn’t good enough. And it was quite hard to accept at first.”Around 2005, Ms. Harwood posed topless on Page 3 of The Daily Sport, a second-tier British newspaper that she said “was popular with day laborers and construction workers.”This apparently included the guys her father worked with. One morning, he went into work and saw the picture of his daughter plastered to his locker. On her face, his colleagues had drawn his mustache and glasses. That’s how he found out she was modeling nude. That’s why he warned her about being disowned.Ms. Harwood felt terrible. Although she likes taking off her clothes for other people, she seems driven less by the desire to transgress than the desire to please. If she were reincarnated as a Disney character, she’d be Jessica Rabbit, not Miss Piggy. But it wasn’t like her father had the money to support her. His warning was sort of an empty threat. So she kept going, with appearances in Playboy and British so-called laddie magazines. In 2011, Ms. Harwood worked for a soft-core site called GlamGirls and became friendly with its owner, Tim Stokely, an earnest technocrat who looks like Mark Zuckerberg by way of Savile Row. Soon after, Mr. Stokely founded a site called Customs4U, which Ms. Harwood said, lightheartedly, may have been her idea and was like OnlyFans in beta. The pitch was to offer horny guys the ability to become their own directors, ordering specially made videos from their favorite models.It sputtered along while Instagram — which is free and doesn’t allow full nudity — took off. Then Mr. Stokely had his light bulb moment: Why not find a way for influencers to directly monetize their content. The platform — OnlyFans — would be similar to Instagram or Twitter except fans would have to pay a monthly subscription to view influencers’ content and interact with them.It would therefore be a natural bolt-on to the influencer’s existing social media. A free feed on Instagram or Twitter could promote and drive traffic to the subscription-only feed on OnlyFans.Eighty percent of the fees collected for each feed would go to the provider. Twenty percent would go to OnlyFans (although after merchant and processing fees, Mr. Stokely says its take is around 12 percent). This is roughly the same arrangement Uber has with its drivers, except that OnlyFans didn’t push performers toward poverty by dictating the prices they could charge.When OnlyFans started, in 2016, Ms. Harwood was one of just 10 models who sought subscribers. She didn’t think much would come of it initially. Her earnings for the first month were $257. Then, the site added features enabling models to create custom content. Ms. Harwood got inventive.She introduced themed days like Mistress Mondays and Dare Dannii Tuesdays, when men bid to watch her drive around town in her underwear and order a pizza to her home, whereupon she would answer the door naked. She also chatted with fans daily, learning their habits, their sexual predilections and their insecurities.“You can get porn for free,” she said. “Guys don’t want to pay for that. They want the opportunity to get to know somebody they’ve seen in a magazine or on social media. I’m like their online girlfriend.”Ms. Harwood took out her phone and showed evidence of her theory.She brought home $29,420.47 in August, $34,303.24 in September, $52,693.29 in October and $52,760.49 in November. Although OnlyFans has brilliantly capitalized off the life’s work of exhibitionists, it is run by people whose most apparent trait is opacity.That’s the second paradox at the center of its existence. There is no website for Fenix International Limited, which is the parent company of OnlyFans. It does have a publicist, Daniel Blythe, who largely helps the men behind it avoid interviews.When I first contacted Mr. Blythe, in November, informing him of my intention to write about OnlyFans, he was affable as could be for a man with no intention of disclosing the names of his clients, much less submitting them to an interview.When I did discover Mr. Stokely’s name and portions of his back story, with a little help from someone on Reddit, Mr. Blythe offered the warmest of congratulations. “Refreshing to know that investigative journalism isn’t dead,” he said.Still, the best he could offer were written responses to questions for Mr. Stokely, the company’s chief executive. The answers were maddeningly vague, but Mr. Stokely did say that he works at Fenix with his father, Guy Stokely, who, before becoming its chairman, was an investment banker with Barclays, the storied British bank. Mr. Stokely also confirmed that one of Fenix’s directors is Leo Radvinsky, a 2003 Northwestern University graduate who went on to start MyFreeCams (one of the industry’s largest chat sites) and who has been a defendant in three lawsuits related to phishing attempts and patent infringement. (Mr. Blythe said he could not comment on the status of those lawsuits because they “do not pertain to OnlyFans.”)Mr. Stokely is eager to take OnlyFans out of the pornography niche and make it a platform for all sorts of influencers and audiences. One hurdle is that there is no iPhone app. The platform as it exists now likely runs afoul of Apple’s restrictions on “overtly sexual or pornographic material.” And even if Apple did allow an OnlyFans app, the fees — 30 percent — would certainly be a problem, Mr. Stokely said. He would have to pass along those expenses to performers. Technical problems on OnlyFans also threaten its longevity and help explain why synonymous sites, such as JustFor.Fans, have managed to siphon off considerable numbers of performers and revenue.Still, Chanel Santini, a 21-year-old performer who has been with OnlyFans for more than a year and earns at least $8,000 a month in subscription revenue, can’t muster serious complaints. Not when she experienced the alternative. She grew up in Albuquerque with a single mother who was a hairdresser. Ms. Santini came out as transgender when she was a teenager. That got her thrown out of the house. She never finished high school. In 2015, Ms. Santini moved to Las Vegas and took a job as a clerk at Hollister, the clothing chain. Even in a city with a fairly low cost of living, it wasn’t enough. So she started doing porn, filming scenes that paid as little as $400, which then led to escorting. She worked for a madam who stole her money, she said, and threatened her with violence. With popular feeds on Instagram and Twitter, Ms. Santini’s name got bigger. OnlyFans started and she signed up. A couple of weeks ago, she burst into tears over the phone while recalling her first pornographic shoot. There, a director had told her that the only way to make a living in porn was to also be a prostitute.“He said that straight to my face,” she said. “Now, I just want to run into him again, so I can say, ‘Well, here I am. I’m pulling in tens of thousands of dollars every month just posting content online. I don’t have to escort anymore. I don’t have to do that. Guess you were wrong!’”Jacob Bernstein is a reporter for the Styles desk. In addition to writing profiles of fashion designers, artists and celebrities, he has focused much of his attention on L.G.B.T. issues, philanthropy and the world of furniture design.  @bernsteinjacob Advertisement"
" AdvertisementSupported byBy Daisuke WakabayashiEven by the nightmarish standards of the empire she oversees, Susan Wojcicki, the chief executive officer of YouTube, has had a dreadful start to 2019. During a single week in February, BuzzFeed reported that her company was running advertisements alongside anti-vaccine content; there was a nationwide panic over the platform abetting child suicide; and a viral video showed how pedophiles were flourishing on the site.And then there was the bestiality.Thumbnail images implying human-animal sex were discovered next to children’s videos, and after an uproar, Ms. Wojcicki was obliged to call a staff meeting to address it. The topic, she allowed during a recent interview, was one “I never thought I would be handling.”Ms. Wojcicki, 50, was sitting in a conference room at YouTube headquarters in suburban San Bruno, Calif., wearing jeans, a cardigan and an expression of pure stoicism. In an industry that celebrates eccentricity, Ms. Wojcicki presents as exceedingly normal, bordering on boring, even as elements of her digital realm burst into the real world in forms that are increasingly grotesque and sometimes dangerous.Several months earlier, not far from where we sat, Ms. Wojcicki had spent 40 minutes hiding from an active shooter: a YouTube user furious about new ad standards, who shot three employees before taking her own life. Ms. Wojcicki said she knew that her policy changes could “upset some people,” but “seeing that someone could be so angry that they would come here is really hard.”Her tenure as C.E.O. wasn’t supposed to be dominated by pedophilia and attempted mass murder. When she got the job, in 2014, Ms. Wojcicki was hailed straightforwardly as the most powerful woman in advertising, someone who’d helped turn on the cash spigots in her time at Google and would presumably repeat the trick at YouTube. In the five years since, Ms. Wojcicki has introduced new forms of ads as well as subscription offerings for music, original content and the cord-cutting service YouTube TV. But somewhere along the line, her job became less about growth and more about toxic containment.Political figures and tech luminaries alike are castigating YouTube for not doing enough to rein in the crooks, crackpots, racists, Russian agents and charlatans who call the platform home. New horrors are ceaseless — last month, just before a terrorist in New Zealand massacred 50 people, he urged people to subscribe to a popular YouTuber — and reinforce the view that the platform is corroding society.Remarkably, for a person who oversees a website with more daily visitors than Facebook, Ms. Wojcicki has managed to keep a low profile and avoid much of the blame. Last year, when other social media executives were summoned to Congress for a scolding, she was not invited. She stayed home and campaigned against a new European Union law that could hold services like YouTube liable if their users upload copyrighted content.While Mark Zuckerberg, Sheryl Sandberg, Jack Dorsey and others have gotten their share of public scrutiny, Ms. Wojcicki largely has not. I wanted to get a better sense of what she was like as a C.E.O., how she was trying to tame YouTube’s hydra of issues and whether there was any sense of urgency within YouTube. And so over the last several months, I spoke to more than a dozen current and former YouTube and Google employees and interviewed Ms. Wojcicki three times.What I found was both reassuring and alarming. At the top of the world’s largest and most volatile video platform is a calm, levelheaded person. But her deliberate style may be at odds with the pace and scale of horrors and just plain stupidity that relentlessly arises on YouTube.On April 2, Bloomberg News published an article that painted a damning portrait of her and other YouTube brass — so focused on maximizing usage statistics that they looked the other way when employees raised concerns about the company’s recommendation system. Ms. Wojcicki seemed taken aback. In an April 7 interview, she said YouTube has not ignored its problem with hosting extreme and conspiracy-minded content. She said it was a large and complex issue and the company was starting to make a dent. She wasn’t defensive, but defiant and — most surprising for someone usually so measured — a little angry.“It’s not like there is one lever we can pull and say, ‘Hey, let’s make all these changes,’ and everything would be solved,” Ms. Wojcicki said. “That’s not how it works.”At one policy review meeting I observed in San Bruno, her methodical approach was on full display. In a narrow conference room lined with whiteboards and TV screens, she sat quietly with a dozen YouTube employees, watching a video called “Condom Challenge,” in which water-filled prophylactics fell onto people’s heads in extreme slow motion. Rather than bursting, the condoms inverted and engulfed their faces like a fishbowl. Ms. Wojcicki pondered whether the clip, which has nearly 15 million views, was merely juvenile or crossed the line to life-threatening. Like so much on YouTube, such “challenges” — when creators perform stunts and call out a friend to do the same — often begin as harmless memes, but morph into something more problematic.Ms. Wojcicki and her staff considered their thicket of policies. A “dangerous” (risk of bodily harm) activity could stay on YouTube as long as no minors were involved. But “ultrahazardous” (risk of death) challenges would be removed. One staffer ventured that the condom challenge seemed to belong in the former category. Ms. Wojcicki disagreed.“There’s no reason we want people putting any kind of plastic over their head,” she said, peering over the screen of her open laptop. But the video stayed up. For every minute Ms. Wojcicki spent discussing it, users uploaded to the site an additional 500 hours of footage.Unlike many of her tech-C.E.O. peers, Ms. Wojcicki (pronounced “Woe-jisky”) does not have a tidy origin story to tell reporters; there was no aha! moment in a dorm room that has been polished and embellished over the years. She didn’t drop out of Harvard; she graduated. But in 1998, Ms. Wojcicki and her husband rented part of their Menlo Park, Calif., home for $1,700 a month to a pair of Stanford University graduate students named Larry Page and Sergey Brin. They had just started a search engine called Google.Ms. Wojcicki was working for Intel at the time, and one day, she wasn’t able to find an important piece of information because Google was down. She realized that she had become dependent on “the site developed by those two dudes in my garage.” Ms. Wojcicki joined Google as its 16th employee and its first marketing manager.With a baby on the way, she was going to work for a company with no revenue. She helped turn Google into a juggernaut, developing its signature advertising product, AdWords, and overseeing its first foray into content sharing, called Google Video. In 2006, swallowing her pride, she encouraged Google to acquire a rival service called YouTube for $1.65 billion. (Morgan Stanley recently estimated that the division is now worth $160 billion.)Over the years, Ms. Wojcicki built a personal fortune estimated in the hundreds of millions, and she remains a close confidant of Mr. Page, who is now the chief executive of Google’s parent, Alphabet. One former executive told me, “Susan is the first cousin of the Google royal family.”Ms. Wojcicki’s biological family is remarkably accomplished. She is the oldest of three sisters; the middle one, Janet, is an anthropologist, epidemiologist and former Fulbright scholar; and the youngest, Anne, co-founded 23andMe, the DNA testing company. (Anne was also married to Mr. Brin until 2015.)Being part of a high-profile clan can cause confusion. Chris Dale, a YouTube spokesman, once learned that People magazine planned to run a story that Susan Wojcicki was dating Alex Rodriguez, the former New York Yankees slugger. Mr. Dale recalls sheepishly calling his boss — who had been married for more than 20 years — in the middle of a parent-teacher meeting to ask if she was having an affair. She was not. Anne, not Susan, had been seeing Mr. Rodriguez.Since taking over YouTube, fame has been something Ms. Wojcicki has tried to avoid. But she is warm and approachable in person, and for one recent interview, she arrived at the office dressed like any other Google employee, with black cowboy boots and a backpack slung over one shoulder, ready to discuss her track record. “One way I think about some of the decisions is putting myself in the future and thinking: in five or 10 years, what will they say?” Ms. Wojcicki said. “If someone were to look back on the decisions that we’re making, would they feel we were on the right side of history? Would I feel proud? Will my children feel like I made good decisions?”Whether vacuous or violent, YouTube troubles arise at a dumbfounding pace. Last year, YouTube banned both the “Tide Pod” challenge, which involved biting into laundry detergent pods, and “No lackin” videos, in which participants aim guns at each other. Confronted by one crisis after another, Ms. Wojcicki has introduced policies to curb the spread of problematic videos and raised the bar on which videos can carry advertising. The challenge is cleaning up the mess while keeping her various constituencies — users, creators, advertisers, parents, lawmakers — happy, or at least not irate.When she became C.E.O., Ms. Wojcicki inherited an audacious goal: Get users to watch more than one billion hours of videos every day, a tenfold increase from 2012. She kept the target in place and made some changes at the margins. In 2016, YouTube scaled back recommendations of sensational and clickbait-y videos, because it found users were drawn to watching them but later regretted it — a lot like eating junk food.Two of Ms. Wojcicki’s inflection points came in spring 2017. That March, major advertisers, including AT&T and Johnson & Johnson, boycotted the service after reports that their messages appeared on offensive content. Then, in June, three men drove a van into pedestrians on London Bridge. Media reports said one of the attackers had watched the inflammatory YouTube sermons of an Islamic cleric. Ms. Wojcicki said the attack clarified for her that her company could no longer keep content at arm’s length and hide behind a broadly articulated set of community guidelines.“We needed to have a deeper understanding of the issues, we needed to have much deeper enforcement and we needed to have much more precision in our policies,” Ms. Wojcicki said. In the months that followed, she added thousands of human reviewers to examine controversial videos and created an “intelligence desk” to identify percolating issues on the internet more quickly. Her staff also deployed Google’s machine-learning systems to flag extremist content.These days, YouTube says it is pursuing what the company calls “responsible growth.” When asked what that means, Ms. Wojcicki said an easy explanation was a challenge.To boil it down: YouTube wants to remove the content that violates its policies more quickly and effectively; promote better, more authoritative material and limit the spread of videos that are potentially harmful but do not break the rules.Ms. Wojcicki said the third category, so-called borderline content, has been the most challenging. Earlier this year, the company announced that it was changing its algorithm to stop recommending material like conspiracy videos that can become a gateway to the unsavory.Starting with the United States, YouTube said it would employ human raters from across the country to evaluate certain content. Those judgments will help inform what the recommendation engine flags. (Clearly, the algorithms need attention. This week, they mistakenly added information about the Sept. 11, 2001 terror attacks to footage of the Notre Dame fire.) YouTube said it plans to introduce the change to another 20 countries this year, deploying raters in each market to understand the preferences of local users.When asked why she didn’t act sooner, Ms. Wojcicki said she wished she had. “If I were to go back in time, I certainly would have accelerated all of these features, and I would have accelerated all of this work because now I’ve realized how important it is,” she said. “I realized at the time, too. We always thought it was important, but I can’t emphasize the number of people and systems that it is taking for us to implement it.”At the YouTube policy meeting I observed, Ms. Wojcicki asked 37 questions in one hour. They were short. And direct. In one exchange, a YouTube staffer (I agreed to not use their names) briefed her on an uptick in users uploading soft-core pornography.Ms. Wojcicki: “You feel good about the changes we made, and that that group has been managed?”Staffer: “Yes. I mean, they’ll keep evolving.”Ms. Wojcicki: “How did we find it?”The staffer described an anomaly-detection system.Ms. Wojcicki: “And then you terminated those accounts?”Staffer: “That’s right.”YouTube’s mammoth video corpus and flow of new kinds of content present a challenge that simply never ends. Another test is always around the corner, whether it be the 2020 presidential elections or A.I.-generated “deepfake” technology. In the meantime, it’s hard to declare progress, much less victory, when the failures are so notable.Ms. Wojcicki said that seeing harmful videos and the hateful behavior of people online is the worst part of her job. “It’s probably not even rewarding, because everybody is angry at you all the time,” she said. “But I think it’s probably some of the most important work that I will do in my career, because it’s setting a standard of responsibility for the internet.”She has become a pariah among a vocal minority of YouTube enthusiasts who think she has gone too far to alter what made YouTube popular in the first place. When Ms. Wojcicki started her own YouTube channel in fall 2017, her videos were overrun by negative comments, including anti-Semitic remarks and insults about her looks and manner of speaking. Her first post — a slick montage with YouTube stars offering advice on making videos — received five times as many thumbs-down votes as thumbs-up. When YouTube published a year-in-review compilation, which excluded reference to its troubles, it became the most disliked video in the site’s history. Even Ms. Wojcicki’s kids, she said, told her that it was “cringey.”The growing backlash against YouTube has complicated some personal relationships. Marc Benioff, the chairman of Salesforce, said last year that social media was potentially as harmful as cigarettes and needed to be regulated. Ms. Wojcicki has been a Salesforce board director since 2014, and Mr. Benioff is a longtime acquaintance. For this article, YouTube arranged for an interview with Mr. Benioff to provide insight about her. But on the morning of a scheduled call, Mr. Benioff was feuding on Twitter with its C.E.O. about a proposed tax to pay for services for the homeless in San Francisco.He joined the call 40 minutes late, saying he only had five minutes to spare. When I asked how Ms. Wojcicki reacted to his comments about social media, Mr. Benioff became upset. He said he wasn’t “prepared to answer” the question and had expected to speak about her leadership style. Then he ended the call.In a written statement sent a week later, Mr. Benioff said: “We’re living in a crisis of trust, and as I’ve said before that if our industry doesn’t self-regulate, the government will do it for us. But I don’t think that reality fazes someone like Susan because she knows, no matter what, the power of trust and transparency far outweighs whatever regulation that may come our way.”The easiest way to judge a C.E.O.’s performance, of course, is to study their company’s financial results. In the case of YouTube, that’s a matter of guesswork. The company is a few layers deep within Alphabet and its financial results are not disclosed. YouTube reveals data points in drips and drabs, but the numbers are too absent of context to be of much use. On the last earnings call with analysts, for example, Google said that the number of YouTube channels with more than one million subscribers nearly doubled last year, and that the number of creators making more than $10,000 annually grew more than 40 percent. But investors do not know YouTube’s profit or costs, or how Ms. Wojcicki has affected them over time.From what we can glean, though, YouTube’s business appears to be thriving. Alphabet cited its “strong contribution” as a key factor for the company’s record profits in the fourth quarter. Analysts estimate that YouTube’s annual revenue has surpassed $15 billion and is growing at 30 to 40 percent a year.If building a business with Netflix-size revenue inside Alphabet wasn’t enough to gain Ms. Wojcicki job security from YouTube’s policing struggles, there’s also the Larry factor. She technically reports to Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief executive, but she answers to Mr. Page. She remains one of the few people at the company with “walk-in access” to the reclusive co-founder, one Google executive told me. “She is not going anywhere,” this person said.One reason Ms. Wojcicki defies easy characterization is that her core function keeps changing. Today, her job is to be something like the standards czar of an anarchic civilization. Before that, when YouTube started home-growing celebrity icons, she was a budding media mogul. But in whatever role YouTube has needed her to assume, Ms. Wojcicki has not lost sight of the skill she learned early on at Google: how to keep advertisers happy.Marc S. Pritchard, Procter & Gamble’s chief brand officer, who is responsible for one of the biggest advertising budgets in the world, said his company has had some rocky moments with YouTube in the last few years, and that Ms. Wojcicki has been a steadying presence.Like other major marketers, P.&G. stopped spending on YouTube in early 2017 when it found its advertisements running next to videos with violence, extreme language and other consumer-unfriendly qualities. When Mr. Pritchard called Ms. Wojcicki with the bad news, he said, the conversation was not contentious. She told him: “You’re an important partner. We’re going to work together to get this fixed.”Almost a year after P.&G. put its wallet away, the “Tide Pod challenge” started to spread across YouTube. Tide is one of P.&G.’s flagship brands, and Mr. Pritchard said that late one Friday night, Ms. Wojcicki called him with reassurances that her company was on top of the problem. She added a metaphor about the scale of the challenge: YouTube had started out as a small city, but it had grown into a metropolis.“I think you’ve grown well beyond a metropolis,” Mr. Pritchard recalled telling her. “You grew into a galaxy. That has implications beyond anything you would have ever known.” Within a few hours, the worst Tide Pod videos were scrubbed from YouTube, and the platform changed its algorithm so anyone searching for them would be shown a safety video.“No debate, just action,” said Mr. Pritchard. A few months later, P.&G. announced that it would resume advertising on YouTube.Over Presidents’ Day weekend, Ms. Wojcicki was traveling with her family when another ad disaster struck. A YouTuber named Matt Watson posted a video with the title “YouTube is Facilitating the Sexual Exploitation of Children, and It’s Being Monetized.” It demonstrated how pedophiles were coordinating their behavior on the site, including on some videos sponsored by big brands, and those companies started to pull their advertising.Ms. Wojcicki asked her staff to do a “content review” to remove any problematic videos and comments. She coordinated with senior executives and the “incident commander,” a rotating position she had created to ensure that every “escalation” — that’s corporate-speak for “a terrible thing found on our platform” — had a point person overseeing the response. Eventually, YouTube said it removed inappropriate comments from thousands of videos and would disable comments permanently on most content featuring children under 13.Ms. Wojcicki said while the situation was regrettable, it also demonstrated that some of YouTube’s new policies are helping. YouTube was able to turn off comments on millions of videos over a holiday weekend, something it would have struggled to do in the past.A month later, when YouTube’s human reviewers were overwhelmed by a deluge of videos of the mass shooting in New Zealand — at one point, footage of the shooting was being uploaded every second — Ms. Wojcicki said the company intentionally disabled search functions. It also bypassed human reviewers and let its computers immediately take down any videos that were automatically flagged.She said each horrible incident helps the company be better prepared for the next one. And there will always be a next one, as long as YouTube remains open to allowing anyone with an internet connection to upload a video.After a long conversation, Ms. Wojcicki became introspective. She said she joined Google because she wanted to do something meaningful with her life, and saw the company’s mission of helping people find the right information as inspiring. But now she recognizes that her ultimate legacy will be whether YouTube can get a handle on its problems.“I know we can do better, but we’re going to get there. We’ll get to a point where we have solved a lot of these issues, and I feel like we’ve already made significant progress,” she said. “I own this problem, and I’m going to fix it.”An earlier version of this article misidentified the nationality of a gunman suspected of killing 50 people in New Zealand. He is from Australia, not New Zealand.Advertisement"
" FeatureAfter decades of resistance to sports gambling, team owners and state officials are laying the groundwork for it — with potentially huge implications.CreditCreditPhoto illustration by Najeebah Al-Ghadban. Source photograph: Sean M. Haffey/Getty Images.Supported byBy Bruce SchoenfeldHalf an hour before a preseason hockey game last fall, Ted Leonsis strolled down the concourse of Capital One Arena in Washington, stopping every now and then to pose for someone’s selfie. Leonsis owns both the Washington Capitals, the National Hockey League team, and the arena itself, a squat behemoth that fills a block of Chinatown not far from Ford’s Theater. He also owns other teams that play there, including the Washington Wizards, in the National Basketball Association, and some smaller ones that don’t.Leonsis is easily the most popular sports owner in the nation’s capital, though the Wizards have managed just one division title in his eight seasons and his N.H.L. team underachieved for years. It helps that the Capitals finally won the Stanley Cup last season, the city’s first championship in any major professional league in more than a quarter-century. But Leonsis is also uncommonly friendly to fans. During his customary lap around the arena, he fielded questions from anyone who came up to him. It was hard to imagine many big-league owners doing the same.A middle-aged African-American man in a Capitals jersey approached Leonsis. “What about that gambling thing?” he asked. A few months before, the federal statute prohibiting sports gambling was overturned by the Supreme Court; this was the first home game since a few states, newly liberated to set their own gambling agendas, had implemented laws allowing sports bets. Leonsis has been vocal about his support for legal gambling, and he was full of ideas. One was a sports bar he planned to put inside the arena that would handle bets. It would fit into a space currently occupied by a brewpub, or perhaps displace a fitness center. He envisioned betting windows, like those at a horse track.Sports gambling wasn’t yet legal in the District of Columbia, and until it was, there would be no betting windows. But Leonsis is confident that they will come. “Eventually,” he told me, the bar “will be somewhere that fans can congregate and watch games and bet on the games in whatever way they want to” — whether at the windows or on hand-held devices. Leonsis would outsource the bookmaking, because owning a team while taking bets on its games would be perceived as a conflict of interest (and probably be illegal). Instead, he would simply offer a site for eating, drinking and more gambling. “Except that I want to outlaw the word ‘gambling,’ ” he said. “Maybe call it ‘interactive wagering.’ When you hear ‘gambling,’ you think of Tony Soprano — ‘I’m with my bookie.’ People who bet on N.C.A.A. pools at their church, they don’t think they’re gambling. They are.”Leonsis, who held various executive positions at America Online from 1994 to 2007, says he doesn’t gamble — not on sports or on anything else. Yet he has risked both his reputation and his capital on the future of sports wagering. He owns a stake in DraftKings, a daily sports fantasy company that has segued into online gambling. He has invested in Sportradar, which delivers, at high speed, information on games in progress to bookmaking websites, creating the sort of advantage enjoyed by Wall Street traders who, in his words, “get a quarter of a second more to say ‘buy that stock.’ ” He owns part of WinView, which holds numerous patents for various aspects of in-game gambling. He hopes to fill the schedule of the NBC Sports Washington cable channel, of which he owns a third, with chatter about point spreads and gambling opportunities. “Like CNBC,” he says.Gambling on sports became explicitly legal in Nevada in 1949. Until recently, the prospect of it spreading beyond that state’s borders was treated as potentially ruinous by the franchise owners and commissioners who ruled over sports. They feared that it would alter the relationship between fans and their favorite teams, and that gambling would expose athletes to underworld characters trying to manipulate games. Eventually, the cautionary tale went, the competition in even the biggest leagues would be indistinguishable from the manufactured plotlines of pro wrestling or old-time roller derby. Gambling on sports was already happening, of course — at Las Vegas casinos, on illegal internet sites, at the corner bar — yet somehow that hadn’t made it more palatable. “Even five years ago,” says Steve Murray, a partner with Leonsis in the venture-capital firm that has invested in many of these businesses, “you would have had a hard time finding a single owner in any of these leagues saying that gambling was a good idea. You wouldn’t have been able to do it.”Since then, attitudes seem to have changed abruptly. It’s now difficult to find anyone inside sports who opposes gambling. In part that’s because the leagues and their investors have come to see how much they stand to gain. But it’s also a result of insiders like Leonsis evangelizing to anyone who would listen: in owners’ meetings, in conversations with sponsors, even with U.S. congressmen during a 2017 gambling conference on Capitol Hill. “He’s a visionary, and he speaks quite eloquently about what the future opportunities are,” says Gary Bettman, the N.H.L.’s commissioner, who until recently strongly opposed gambling on sports. “He has been at the forefront of pushing us to make sure we’re as knowledgeable as we can be. I get emails on this from him daily — more than daily.”Leonsis speaks slowly but exuberantly. His conversation unfolds as logically as a business plan. “What are you so afraid of?” he likes to ask anyone who seems uneasy about gambling. “We’re going to create more jobs. We’re going to generate more taxes.” While pro athletes were once paid poorly enough to make the offers of payoffs enticing, Leonsis argues that a vast majority are today far wealthier than anyone who might tempt them. “I don’t think an N.B.A. player is susceptible to some hustler saying, ‘Shave the points, and here’s $5,000 in hundred-dollar bills,’ ” he says.Leonsis arrived back at his suite shortly after the opening face-off. He sat down in time to see the Boston Bruins score a goal. I mentioned that where sports wagers were now legal, gamblers had surely placed bets both for and against the Capitals. Leonsis wanted his team to win, naturally, even though this preseason game didn’t really count. But he admitted that just the fact that those bets could be made meant that, in a sense, he’d already won.In the middle of the 20th century, television began reframing the way we experience sports. It gave us replays and extended timeouts, pushed World Series games into prime time, scrambled conference affiliations. Through national telecasts and highlights and, later, superstations and cable networks, fans grew intimate with teams many hundreds of miles away. Now gambling is poised to unleash changes just as transformative, and they may come fast. In an October report, PricewaterhouseCoopers estimated that a fully developed sports gambling industry in all states would draw $100 billion in bets every year; the congressional National Gambling Impact Study Commission has suggested the figure could be closer to $400 billion. Whatever the size of the jackpot, leagues, teams and broadcasters will want their piece of it. “The players, the sponsors, all the stakeholders in the ecosystem can become beneficiaries of this,” says Peter Guber, an owner of both the Golden State Warriors and the Los Angeles Dodgers.The games we watch are already enhanced by data collected through technological advances. Announcers tell us how hard baseballs are hit and how far they travel, or how many miles a particularly active soccer player has run. Because such derivatives create new opportunities for betting, we’re sure to see many more of them. (The N.B.A. has been advertising for a gambling data analyst on the employment website Glassdoor.) Hockey hasn’t traditionally generated much in the way of metrics, but in order to learn who is skating the fastest or shooting the hardest, the N.H.L. is preparing to record the movements of every player during every game and even put a chip inside the puck. “Leagues are building a fire hose of data around their product,” says Chris Grove, an analyst who consults for gaming companies and investors. “And the logical recipient of that data is the betting industry.”What are the chances that someone homers in the next two innings? Or kicks a field goal in the next five minutes? Imagine those odds sliding across the bottom of your screen like the CNN news crawl. As a sports media consultant and former N.B.A. executive named Ed Desser puts it, “How does the production and presentation of telecasts change to accommodate gambling?” Explicit references to betting might seem jarring during a Masters broadcast, which has the feel of a conversation in a Ritz-Carlton lobby. But Tiger Woods and Phil Mickelson’s made-for-TV showdown in November, which included such information, gave viewers more reasons to care about what happened.Real-time digital wagering has created betting opportunities that don’t rely on the score; the appeal of a game in which the Patriots are up by 30 points in the fourth quarter is altogether different if you can put money down right then on how many more first downs they’ll get. As viewers create their own narrative tension by betting on pieces of the action, broadcast rights fees will increase and franchise values soar. That tension could also be artificially created and exploited by event promoters too. “If you’re the U.F.C. and you have an absolute dog of a fight on a major card for whatever reason, you could use odds and promotions around betting to drive fan interest,” Grove points out. “You could use betting proactively.”Legal gambling also opens the door to an entirely new source of sponsorship income. In English soccer, 26 of the 44 teams that compete in the sport’s top echelons wear shirts festooned with the names of bookmaking sites. Don’t be surprised to see them soon in the N.B.A. or Major League Soccer. Games will be held in venues with names like the Bet365 Bowl or Caesars Coliseum and be analyzed by touts on TV and subscription podcasts. “As you create more interest in these things, people want more information,” Desser says. “And they’re always looking for an edge.”Perhaps nobody sees more dollar signs on the horizon than legislators. It remains uncertain how quickly states will continue to pass new gambling laws, or how broad or restrictive those will be, but few dispute the potential impact. “I was talking to some economic development people from Alabama,” says Jack Evans, a District of Columbia council member who introduced a sports gambling bill there that is expected to become law in March. “They were asking how they could raise money. I told them: ‘Put in sports gambling and you can pay off all your debts on the Alabama-Auburn football game alone. One game, Alabama and Auburn. You’d make billions.’ ”Leonsis has a stake in nearly all of these possibilities. He envisions simulcasts of every Wizards and Capitals game on NBC Sports Washington that will include a steady stream of betting information. He controls two teams in the resurrected Arena Football League and is pitching networks a gambling-centric concept for its games that’s too overt for the stodgy N.F.L., at least for now. Sportradar’s chief executive told me he expects its $2.4 billion valuation to quintuple in three years with the opening of the U.S. market, which will mean the same for Leonsis’s stake. And if franchise values rise because of fans’ increased engagement in the sports they follow, Leonsis’s N.H.L. and N.B.A. teams could be his most profitable gambling plays of all. In time, sports betting may generate its own Mark Zuckerberg or Jeff Bezos, some forward-thinking entrepreneur who comes to define the zeitgeist of his generation. For now, though, the person whose odds are as great as anyone’s to profit from this emerging industry is Leonsis, a 62-year-old billionaire who has been around since the early days of the World Wide Web.The history of regulated gambling in America goes back to 1931, when Nevada opened the nation’s first casinos. The state was on the verge of bankruptcy, a predicament that motivated it to defy the prevailing national sentiment against gambling. “Any state could have done it,” says Anthony Cabot, who teaches gaming law at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. “But no others did.” Just as pro football was starting to thrive, Nevada broadened its gambling law to regulate sports bets. Over the next half-century, American attitudes toward gambling evolved. In 1978, with great fanfare, casinos opened in Atlantic City. A decade later, Congress passed a law permitting them on land owned by Native American tribes. By 2003, a Gallup Poll revealed, nearly half of all Americans had played the lottery in the previous 12 months; almost a third had visited a casino. But just 10 percent had bet on a pro sports event, mostly because there were few legal ways to do it.Nobody tried to legalize sports betting outside Nevada until Chris Christie. By the time Christie became New Jersey’s governor in 2010, Atlantic City was in trouble. The novelty appeal of its casinos had faded. Hotel bookings had plummeted — and tax-generating casino revenues with them. Christie saw sports betting as a way to counter those losses. His first year in office, he pushed a referendum that would allow it at any racetrack or casino in the state. The referendum passed, and Christie signed it into law.There was only one problem. Through the Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992 — which, in a somewhat curious twist, had been sponsored by New Jersey’s own Bill Bradley, the former N.B.A. great turned senator — the federal government banned sports gambling throughout the country, beyond a few existing manifestations that were allowed to continue. Those included betting on bicycle racing in New Mexico and golf in Wyoming, several sports-based lotteries, horse racing, jai alai and the bookmaking inside Nevada’s casinos.In 2014, New Jersey’s referendum was challenged in court by the N.C.A.A. The major sports leagues joined the suit as plaintiffs. But Christie had calculated that the Supreme Court wouldn’t uphold a law banning a recreational pursuit in 49 states that had been legal for decades in the 50th, and he was right. The court, analysts noted, wanted to make a show of limiting federal jurisdiction. “They just happened to pick a gambling law to do so,” Cabot says. Last May’s verdict in what had been renamed Murphy v. N.C.A.A., after Christie’s successor, Phil Murphy, surprised the gambling industry. “You’d be amazed how many casino operators didn’t see it coming,” says Greg Carlin, co-founder and chief executive of Rush Street Gaming, which owns casinos in Pennsylvania, New York and Illinois. It didn’t surprise Leonsis, though. He’d been planning on it for years.Leonsis dates his personal revelation about gambling to November 2015, when he found himself visiting the remote southwest coast of Scotland. His daughter, who lived in London, had a serious boyfriend, and both families had flown in to spend Thanksgiving weekend at a manor house owned by the boyfriend’s parents. On a clear day, Leonsis was told, you could see Ireland across the water. He never could confirm that, though, because the weather was never clear. The basketball and hockey seasons were underway back home, but the house had no internet or satellite reception, so Leonsis couldn’t follow his teams. It was foggy and cold. “There was nothing to do,” he says.The closest village of any size, Campbeltown, was 40 minutes away. One morning, they all drove in for lunch. Nobody seemed to be around. “The whole town is like two blocks long,” Leonsis says. “And there’s one restaurant and a pharmacy. And then we saw one place that had some life to it.” Inside a storefront, a crowd was making noise. It was the betting parlor, Leonsis learned. The phrase didn’t carry any connotation of disrepute, as it would in America. “It was just, ‘This is where you go and watch a game and see your friends and hang out,’ ” he said. “It was the ‘Cheers’ of Campbeltown.”From Scotland, Leonsis went to London. Driving through his daughter’s neighborhood, he noticed one betting parlor after another. “Like in America, where you’d have a Starbucks,” he says. He investigated and found that you could bet on sports at 8,500 outlets in the United Kingdom. As a comparison, he looked up Domino’s pizza and saw that it had roughly 5,500 stores across the United States. “For me, that was the beginning of, ‘Hey, this is a true consumer phenomenon,’ ” he says. The parlors seemed inviting. They weren’t seedy haunts for professional gamblers. “This is not Off-Track Betting,” Leonsis says. “This is Starbucks or Domino’s. This is popularized and accepted in the most remote places and the most centrally located places. If you wanted to find a proxy of what could happen here, you just had to look at Campbeltown and London.”Adam Silver, who is now the N.B.A.’s commissioner, had been doing just that. From 1998 to 2006, Silver ran the league’s video production and programming. On frequent business trips abroad, he couldn’t help noticing how pervasive gambling was. Stadiums had betting kiosks beside their snack bars. “There was this enormous legalized infrastructure in place,” Silver says. Yet somehow, leagues and teams hadn’t been corrupted. In fact, they were thriving. Silver’s boss at the time, David Stern, was a lawyer who had come to the sport during college basketball’s betting scandals of the 1960s. Throughout his tenure, Stern remained opposed to gambling — he later changed his mind — and for years even refused to hold league meetings and other events in Las Vegas. “But the opportunity seemed fairly obvious to me,” Silver says.In 2014, Silver succeeded Stern as N.B.A. commissioner. That year, in a New York Times Op-Ed, he made an argument that did not differ much from those advocating the legalization of marijuana. “Despite legal restrictions, sports betting is widespread,” he wrote. “Because there are few legal options available, those who wish to bet resort to illicit bookmaking operations and shady offshore websites.” Why not bring the action into the light, he proposed, where it could be regulated, and the movement of betting lines and the sums of money monitored?Earlier that fall, the N.B.A. signed a nine-year, $24 billion television rights deal. At the league’s board of governors meeting in New York, Leonsis, who was chairman of its media committee, presented it to the rest of the owners. Even as he celebrated the deal, he cautioned that such fees were unlikely to grow, though the cost of operating teams inevitably would. “We have to find new pots of gold,” he said.Leonsis believed he had found them on that trip to the United Kingdom. You can hold your nose all you want, he later told his colleagues, but gambling offered a viable and wholly untapped source of revenue for the N.B.A. Leonsis can be almost courtly in negotiations, and he was polite when he met resistance. Privately, though, he shook his head. How could you ignore such an opportunity, ready to be taken advantage of as soon as the law allowed? What are you so afraid of?For decades, sports gambling tended to be a static experience. You bet on a team and handed money to somebody, and maybe got a slip of paper in return. Then you waited to find out if you were right. That changed when three American options traders moved to Antigua in the mid-1990s to create an online gambling business they named World Sports Exchange. Instead of offering point spreads, World Sports Exchange operated like a commodities market. Before tipoff, options on the favored Lakers, for example, might cost $60 each. Options on the Knicks, the underdogs, might sell for $40. At the end of the game, the options on the losing team would become worthless, while the options on the winning team would each pay out $100.But here was the novelty: You didn’t have to wait until the game was over to cash in. If the Lakers scored the first eight points, the value of that $60 option might grow to, say, $72. You could sell it and pocket your $12 gain. You might then invest in the Knicks at a discount. Or you might wait for the price to fall and buy another option on the Lakers. You could buy and sell options, on either team or both, throughout the game. Once you’d started, it was hard to stop until the game ended. It was exhausting. It was also great fun. And even more than the other bookmakers operating beyond U.S. borders, which were handling traditional bets, it seemed to threaten the monopoly on sports gambling that Nevada’s casinos had long enjoyed.I met one of those traders, Haden Ware, under a thatched roof in the Caribbean in early 2000. He was drinking beer and eating lobster salad. Steve Schillinger, a partner at World Sports Exchange, later confided to me that he and Ware were each making more than $1 million a year. Yet they were miserable. The Interstate Wire Act of 1961 had outlawed taking bets over telephone lines. In that era of dial-up internet access, that’s exactly what World Sports Exchange was doing. Online gambling was “especially pernicious,” in the words of Jon Kyl, the U.S. senator from Arizona. “You get up in the morning and log on to your computer and start to gamble. It plays to the addictive nature of many people, especially kids.” Quoting an unnamed Harvard professor, Kyl called it “the crack cocaine of gambling.” A conservative Republican, Kyl introduced specific legislation against internet gambling and vowed to indict expats taking bets online. In 1998, 21 U.S. citizens were charged with Wire Act violations. Among them were Ware, Schillinger and Jay Cohen, another partner. Weary of living in exile, Cohen flew home. He was convicted and served 18 months in prison. Janet Reno, the U.S. Attorney General, backed Kyl’s efforts. So did casinos, sports leagues and gambling interest groups — just about everyone, in fact, except some Indian tribes. Even the lobbyist being paid by World Sports Exchange acknowledged that the opponents of digital gambling had a point. “The casinos worked a long time to establish legitimacy,” he told me.Eventually, World Sports Exchange was overtaken by better-funded rivals. It ceased operations in 2013. That same day, Schillinger committed suicide. After serving his sentence, Cohen disappeared to Europe. By then, though, their insight that betting doesn’t have to stop when play begins had revolutionized the industry; what DraftKings and its competitors are currently doing in New Jersey, and what companies like Betfair and Bet365 do in England, could not exist without it.Since the demise of World Sports Exchange, sports betting on various hand-held devices has proliferated. And because smartphones and tablets routinely capture the details of each transaction, proponents argue that games are actually better protected against manipulation when digital betting is legal. “If there was a huge bet placed against a team two hours before an announcement that its star player wouldn’t be participating, that is something that should cause us to investigate,” Silver says. “And it’s something that historically we wouldn’t have known.”For many N.B.A. owners — and some in other leagues as well — the conversion began in 2014 with Silver’s Op-Ed and his argument that legalization actually offered more protection, not less, from the unsavory characters who might try to influence players. Europe was proving to be a test case, and its teams were thriving. Now Leonsis has come along, telling owners that their franchises would gain in value because gambling, like fantasy leagues, gives fans another reason to be engrossed in a sport.“Ted was able to articulate the value proposition of not just the betting, but the deepening of the engagement,” Guber says. Rather than customers, Leonsis thinks of fans as an audience. “He understood that audiences want experiences,” Guber says. “This gives them a chance to walk away telling their own story — ‘I saw this opportunity, I recognized what this player would be able to accomplish.’ When you have a tool that makes an audience more of a participant than a passenger, it’s a very vital and vibrant element.”There are risks inherent in legalizing sports gambling, Guber believes. But after talking with Leonsis, he became convinced that its opportunities far outweighed them. The N.B.A. was still a plaintiff when the Supreme Court heard the gambling case in late 2017, but by then Guber was among the many owners who were rooting for New Jersey to win.One afternoon last October, Terry Link drove from his home outside Chicago to Springfield, the Illinois state capital. An informational presentation about gambling was scheduled in the House of Representatives the following day, and Link, a Democrat who serves as assistant majority leader in the Illinois Senate, wanted to attend. Since he was first elected in 1996, he has sponsored several gambling bills. Not one became law. “I’m still waiting to get one signed,” he says ruefully.Before dinner that evening, he stopped into a bar to meet Jeremy Kudon, a lobbyist whom DraftKings and its competitor FanDuel have hired to help persuade legislators to pass laws allowing digital gambling. After ordering a soda, Link told Kudon that Illinois casinos hoped to use sports betting to get new customers into their buildings. He reminded Kudon that casinos have generated plenty of tax money for the state. Because of that, Link said, he wouldn’t favor a bill that would allow gamblers to undermine them by “placing bets from the couches in their living rooms.”This was a problem for Kudon, because bets placed from living-room couches are exactly what his clients need to survive. Kudon argued that gamblers were already betting from their couches, but doing so on illegal websites. And the state was missing out on its cut.DraftKings and FanDuel, whose valuations are both estimated to exceed $1 billion, were founded on the same idea: curate a limitless number of fantasy leagues for profit, generated by participation fees, and let customers choose new players every day. For many fans, watching games quickly became the equivalent of monitoring their investment portfolios, except the investments were bets on individual players. Eric Schneiderman, New York’s attorney general at the time, thought that sounded a lot like gambling.Games of skill are legal in every state; you can pay to participate in fishing or bowling competitions, for example, and win cash prizes. What you can’t do is bet on who you think will win those competitions. The fantasy sites argued, somewhat tenuously, that constructing a winning team is more like fishing than knowing who is good at fishing. Schneiderman disagreed. In 2015, he shut down both sites and fined the companies. At that point, DraftKings and FanDuel began working to get bills passed in state legislatures that would certify fantasy sports as legal.Soon after, Leonsis bought part of DraftKings. He tends to characterize troubled companies in one of two ways — as either “falling angels,” which eventually rise again, or as “falling knives,” which don’t. In DraftKings, he saw a falling angel. He anticipated that digital sports betting would become legal, and he agreed with Jason Robins, the DraftKings chief executive, that the gaming-industry giants everyone assumed would dominate the U.S. market — the English bookmaker William Hill or maybe Bally’s or Caesars — were actually at a disadvantage. “We have a big database of customers that we know from research are already betting on sports, mostly with black-market websites,” Robins says. “And we have a brand that is much more identified with winning money and betting on sports than any of them that we’re competing with.”Last summer, DraftKings partnered with a casino, as New Jersey’s law requires, and became the first company to begin taking digital bets. Since then, it has done more online business than any other bookmaker. Its ads blanket cable networks in New Jersey. “Get ready for thousands of ways to bet!” they shout — and they’re not exaggerating. One DraftKings executive estimates that the company’s app averages 45,000 to 55,000 different propositions for gamblers to consider every day.But sports gambling laws enacted in most other states have restricted digital activity. Mississippi allows it, but only if the gamblers are physically inside a casino. Delaware’s law has not yet allowed any digital betting at all. Some casinos plan to leverage their brands online, but many regard digital gambling as a threat. “We have hundreds of millions of dollars invested in our casinos,” says Dan Kehl, the chief executive of Elite Casino Resorts, whose family has been in the gambling business in Iowa since 1990.Kehl backs a bill that would require anyone who wants to bet on sports to first register at one of Iowa’s 19 casinos. That wouldn’t work in larger states, he acknowledges, but no one in Iowa is more than an hour’s drive from a casino. Registered gamblers could bet digitally, though on only a limited selection of propositions. “The question is, how far can we let the mobile go?” Kehl says. That troubles Leonsis, not just because DraftKings might not get the right to operate profitably there, but because nobody will. If gamblers betting on illegal sites can’t be persuaded to bet legally, much of the windfall that investors and politicians like Terry Link are anticipating won’t materialize. It’s not enough that states pass laws legalizing sports betting, Leonsis explains; they have to pass the right law. “The only way that gambling doesn’t work,” he says, “is if the revenue projections are off. If it turns out that all those estimates we hear are wildly inaccurate.”Despite Kudon’s best efforts, laws that Leonsis considers favorable have been a difficult sell, mostly because of political pressure from casinos. In Springfield that evening, Link acknowledged that he personally favored digital sites partnering with casinos and paying them fees. But, he told Kudon, the Illinois casinos insist that whatever fees they’d get wouldn’t make up for the loss of all those potential roulette players. At that, Kudon rolled his eyes. “The gamblers that we’re talking about aren’t going to casinos,” he said. “They’ll never set foot in Rivers,” a casino in Des Plaines, Ill., “because they can bet on sports on these illegal sites. So let’s encourage them to go on DraftKings or FanDuel instead, and Rivers will get a benefit.” To Kudon, the mathematics are clear. “The state gets its licensing fee, and now we’ve gotten rid of the black market,” he said. “That seems like a win to everyone.”If Link’s bill allowed hand-held gambling, as Kudon fantasized, travelers might even make bets while changing planes at O’Hare airport. He urged Link to consider what that would mean for Illinois, the millions of tax dollars that might be generated if gamblers didn’t have to travel to a casino to bet. Link stroked his chin. “I don’t think there’s a right answer yet,” Link said. “You have to look at all the factors involved. In New Jersey, nobody wants to go to the Boardwalk anymore. All the casinos there are going kaput.”He sighed. Common ground seemed a long way away. “Listen, there’s no such thing as a perfect bill,” he said. “The reason we don’t pass these bills comes down to one word: ‘greed.’ Nobody wants part of the pie — they want the whole damn pie.”Last July, Silver announced that the N.B.A. had, in a sponsorship deal, granted MGM Resorts the right to use league logos and data. Even the N.H.L.’s Bettman has come to terms with gambling. “We’ve had a very practical approach,” he told me in his office a few months later. The previous afternoon, the N.H.L. announced its own deal with MGM, though the payment involved was said to be far smaller than the N.B.A.’s.But gambling’s greatest impact, at least proportionally, could come in the new professional leagues it spawns and the moribund ones it helps to resurrect. The Arena Football League once included 19 teams spread across the continent; last year there were four. Leonsis owns the Washington and Baltimore franchises, which makes him not only the most powerful owner in the league but the only person preventing its demise. He has positioned it as an ideal entertainment vehicle for the next generation. That includes gambling, of course. Arena Football averages a touchdown every six plays, Leonsis notes, as well as 98 points a game. “Lots of data generated,” he says — and a multitude of possible bets.Greater than $30 billion has been bet legally on football since 1992, according to the Center for Gaming Research at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. That’s about 50 percent more than on basketball, and double the amount bet on baseball. Leonsis wants to expand the A.F.L. to six franchises, and eventually to 12. But his vision mandates a network partner that will market the game as the anti-N.F.L.: informal, expressive and gambling-friendly. It doesn’t matter that the league, as currently constituted, has almost no history, he says. Your favorite team will be the one you have money on at the moment.On a private flight to New York last fall, Leonsis ran through a pitch he planned to show Sean McManus, who runs the sports department at CBS. He envisioned fast-paced telecasts of A.F.L. games on an affiliated sports channel. But as the plane landed in Teterboro, N.J., he confided that he doesn’t believe CBS will end up investing. Its executives are leery of jeopardizing their relationship with the N.F.L., he said, and that’s probably wise. The N.F.L. most likely wouldn’t look kindly on one of its primary partners’ televising another football league’s games. As usual, though, Leonsis was looking further ahead.“If the N.F.L. is smart, they should want CBS to do this,” he said. “See how far they can take it. Let the A.F.L. be the canary in the coal mine. See what works and what doesn’t work, and then they can pull back from there on their own telecasts.” He paused. “CBS is going to be very nice to us today, but I don’t know if they’re ready for this. We’re going to blow their minds.”An hour later, he was still stuck in New Jersey traffic. He also hadn’t stopped talking about gambling. But while his ideas had the potential to be wildly lucrative, I was struck by how little had actually happened in the months since the Supreme Court ruling. The betting parlor in his arena remained theoretical. DraftKings was thriving in New Jersey, but it hadn’t yet been licensed in another state. Sportradar’s explosive growth still existed only in the imagination of its chief executive. And most of the gambling laws being considered in state legislatures included severe limitations on digital play. As a result, in most states that have passed gambling laws, early revenues haven’t met projections. The growth process is slow, Leonsis admitted, and unpredictable. Yet he remained optimistic. “At AOL, it took us 10 years to get to 5 million” users, he said. “Then it took us five years to get to 30 million.”Just then, his car passed a billboard for a casino that read “Fire Your Bookie.” Leonsis pulled out his phone. “Look,” he said. “I’ll show you.” The DraftKings app was pulsing with offers. There were odds on who would win that night’s N.F.L. game and by how much, but also bets on total points on various games, odds on tennis matches, even European basketball. I was scrolling through them when we entered the Holland Tunnel and everything vanished. “We just passed into New York,” Leonsis said. “So now it won’t work.”A moment before, I’d been a legal gambler. Now, if I tried to place a bet from the same seat in the same car, I’d be breaking the law. I didn’t say anything, but Leonsis must have read the incredulity in my expression. He shrugged.“It’s a work in progress,” he said.Bruce Schoenfeld is frequent contributor to the magazine. He last wrote about Mickey Callaway, the manager of the New York Mets.Advertisement"
